Cabernet isnt the most obvious pawn in a trade war between the United States and China. Airplanes and their parts are the leading American export to China. Soybeans and wheat grow in Trump country.But Chinas selection of wine as a target of retaliatory tariffs did not surprise Michael Honig, a winemaker in the Napa Valley, where the tariff would hit hardest.The reason the government realizes they should penalize us is, we are branded, said Mr. Honig, the president of Honig Vineyard and Winery. Its hard to go after a wheat grower, because who is a wheat grower? Its a commodity. We are not a commodity.The news was an unwelcome turn of events for Mr. Honig and many California winemakers, who have spent years trying to carve out a place in the hearts of wealthy Chinese consumers. That hard work has earned them a prized sliver of what is becoming one of the fastest-growing markets for wine imports.Chinas imports of American wine reached $82 million last year  not including bottles entering duty-free through Hong Kong  a sevenfold increase in the last decade. But growing visibility may have turned Napa wine into easy prey.Wine is something people can relate to, said Jim Boyce, who has been covering the industry from Beijing for a decade on his blog, the Grape Wall of China. Its like putting a tariff on Chinese dumplings. Its something you can feel on an emotional and personal level.The 15 percent tariff, announced Monday, on top of existing tariffs and taxes, is a gut punch to winemakers marketing their wares to the mushrooming legions of young, recently wealthy Chinese.It is that group, one or two levels below Chinas ultrarich, that holds huge potential for California vintners. Those consumers are far more numerous than 1-percenters. And more crucially, theyre the ones driving the recent blossoming of a wine culture in China in which bottles are actually consumed rather than simply traded among elites as trophies.Mr. Honig and his business partner and wife, Stephanie, have spent a decade wooing that clientele, making a trip a year to China to pitch sommeliers in top restaurants and hotels. He has recently expanded beyond the obvious stops in Beijing and Shanghai, visiting cities like Guangzhou, in southern China.There are people who want to spend the most, but there are also aspirational buyers, Mr. Honig said. You may want to buy the Rolls-Royce, but you can afford the Mercedes. And thats his sweet spot.His most popular cabernet goes for around $25 a bottle wholesale, and he sends more than 500 cases of it every year to a plucky Shanghai importing business started by two brothers with dual citizenship. With existing tariffs and value-added taxes mixed in, the total charge tacked on to California wine was already close to 50 percent. After the importer factors in shipping, takes its cut and passes the bottles to a hotel or retail store, which takes its cut, the Napa red ends up selling for the equivalent of around $100.An extra 15 percent charge would be brutal. No one wants to overpay, Mr. Honig said. If all theyre looking at is two different bottles side by side, and we are competing with Australia and Chile, thats a big competitive disadvantage.Chilean and New Zealand wines face no Chinese levies, thanks to free-trade agreements. Australian bottles will enter the country tariff-free next year.Larry Yang, an importer in Shanghai, said his customers liked California wines, but not enough to ignore an even higher price tag. The wine isnt cheap as it is, he said, and if it gets pricier, he will look elsewhere.There are so many countries producing fine wine, he said. I dont have to buy relatively expensive California wine. I could choose from New Zealand, Australia, Chile and South Africa.And Chinese drinkers have a growing array of homegrown brands to choose from. Expert winemakers have spent years harvesting cabernet sauvignon, merlot and cabernet franc varietals at the foothills of the Helan Mountains in Ningxia, a region that borders Inner Mongolia. They have started winning international awards, even beating out French favorites.Then the government began protecting its domestic players.When the European Union put tariffs on Chinese solar panels in 2013, Beijing blustered back by opening an inquiry into whether European winemakers were dumping cheap, improperly subsidized bottles onto the Chinese market. It ended the investigation a year later, after the Europeans agreed to help train Chinese winemakers.Sophisticated wine shops have sprouted up across Shanghai, the online retailer Alibaba now runs a yearly wine sale, and other sites will deliver cases to peoples doors within two days. In August, China got its first master sommelier, a distinction reserved for people who can pass a rigorous series of tests, including verbal and tasting exams.It wasnt like this when David Pearson made his first business trip to Beijing 15 years ago, intent on selling Chinese customers on his super-premium Napa wine Opus One. The rich drank French Bordeaux if they drank wine at all. He had to make the case for his California winery, a joint venture between Robert Mondavi and Baron Philippe de Rothschild.He found a natural audience.People will buy symbols of luxury  watches, cars, expensive bottles of wine  to demonstrate they have the means to do that, said Mr. Pearson, the Opus One chief executive. There was no middle market. You were either spending all your money on the highest quality of wine or you couldnt afford to buy anything other than the least expensive wine.The change started when Xi Jinping became president in 2013 and began an anti-corruption campaign that zeroed in on illicit gift-giving. Wine imports dipped for a couple of years but then recovered as sellers began to learn how to market to a person who would buy a bottle at a time, not several cases.The distributors who learned how to deal with consumers survived and got better at it, said Mr. Boyce, the wine blogger.It isnt clear how exactly the new tariffs will affect Opus One. Mr. Pearson sells the wine to a group of intermediaries in France known as negociants, who then send it to Chinese importers. Its also unlikely that anyone willing to spend the $600 for Opus One in China would even notice the added charge.The middle-market wine buyer  with $20 or so to spare  would notice. France and Australia are already monsters in that market, sending half of all of the foreign wine that went to China last year. The United States share is just 2 percent, and it has been shrinking. The Wine Institute, which represents California growers, says thats partly because theyre selling less for a higher price.California has had a tough time getting into the conversation, said David Amadia, the president of Ridge Vineyards. It wasnt considered a top wine region in China.After his Geyserville zinfandel blend was served at a meeting between Mr. Xi and President Barack Obama in 2013, a flurry of new importers began asking for 1,000 cases at a time. He was initially excited about the attention. Then he realized he had no idea where it was going, or who exactly was so interested in it."We had concerns about gray market and counterfeiting," he said. So he rejected those orders, and says other American winemakers may also be choosing control over quantity. No one knows how much fake wine flows in China, but experts say French and Australian labels are stolen most often, and slapped on random bottles, because they are so well known and abundant.On Mr. Pearsons desk, in Napa, he has a box of counterfeit Opus wines on display. The scammers did a terrific job on the box, he said, other than the X they inserted into the name Rothschild.Part of me takes a strange amount of pride in it, he said. Your brand has to have enough value associated with it in order for someone to think its worth counterfeiting.
BEIJING   Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday China and the United States  should maintain negotiations and he reiterated pledges to ease access for American businesses, as China scrambles to avert a trade war.Li told a conference that included global chief executives that China would treat foreign and domestic firms equally, would not force foreign firms to transfer technology and would strengthen intellectual property rights, repeating promises that have failed to placate Washington.The United States asked China in a letter last week to cut a tariff on U.S. autos, buy more U.S.-made semiconductors and give U.S. firms greater access to the Chinese financial sector, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, citing unidentified sources.Alarm over a possible trade war between the world\'s two largest economies has chilled financial markets as investors anticipated dire consequences should trade barriers go up due to President Donald Trump\'s bid to cut the U.S. deficit with China.U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer listed steps they want China to take in a letter to Liu He, a newly appointed vice premier who oversees China\'s economy, the Journal said, quoting sources with knowledge of the matter.The newspaper reported that Mnuchin was considering a visit to Beijing to pursue negotiations.Despite a steady stream of fierce rhetoric from Chinese state media lambasting the United States for being a "bully" and warning of retaliation, Chinese and U.S. officials are busy negotiating behind the scenes."With regard to trade imbalances, China and the United States should adopt a pragmatic and rational attitude, promote balancing through expansion of trade, and stick to negotiations to resolve differences and friction," Li told the conference in Beijing, state radio reported.China has offered to buy more U.S. semiconductors by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, the Financial Times reported, citing people briefed on the negotiations. China imported $11 billion of semiconductors - comprising chips, diodes and transistors - from the United States last year.Chinese officials are also working to finalize rules by May - instead of the end of June - to allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, the Financial Times said."I anticipate that for political reason it would be logical for China to respond, because countries do," Blackstone Group Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman told Reuters on Monday on the sidelines of the Beijing conference at which Li spoke, the China Development Forum."That\'s why I view this more as a skirmish, and I think the interests of both countries are served by resolving some of these matters."Fears of a trade war mounted this month after Trump imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, and then on Thursday specifically targeted China by announcing plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.On Friday, China responded to the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports. The list of targeted goods contained no mention of soybeans or aircraft, China\'s two biggest U.S. import items.China could also inflict pain on U.S. multinationals that rely on China for a substantial - and growing - portion of their total revenues, said Alex Wolf, senior emerging markets economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments."This could put U.S. companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Starbucks, GM, Nike, etc in the firing line," Wolf said in a note.China can increase the regulatory burden on U.S companies through new inspections and rules; ban travel; stop providing export licenses of key intermediate goods; raise the tax burden on U.S. multinationals in China; or block U.S. companies from the government procurement market, he said.FLOUTED RULESTrump unveiled the planned tariffs targeting Chinese goods after a U.S. inquiry found China guilty of intellectual property theft and unfair trade, by forcing U.S. investors to turn over key technologies to Chinese firms.On Saturday, Liu told Mnuchin in a telephone call the U.S. inquiry violated international trade rules and China would defend its interests, the official Xinhua news agency reported.A U.S. Treasury spokesman confirmed the call, but declined to comment on the content of any letter or on a possible visit by Mnuchin to Beijing."Secretary Mnuchin called Liu He to congratulate him on the official announcement of his new role," the spokesman told Reuters. "They also discussed the trade deficit between our two countries and committed to continuing the dialogue to find a mutually agreeable way to reduce it."The Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion."The U.S. has been wielding sticks worldwide over the past year. Washington needs to be taught a real lesson and such a lesson can only be taught by China, the world\'s second-largest economy," China\'s Global Times newspaper said in an editorial.The widely read tabloid is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s official People\'s Daily, although its stance does not necessarily mirror government policy.Privately, Liu and Mnuchin exchanged letters in the past week on further opening China\'s financial services sector and cutting Chinese tariffs on imported cars, according to the Financial Times.China has a 25 percent tariff on U.S. cars and has talked recently of lowering it.China\'s imports of U.S. motor vehicles totalled $10.6 billion in 2017, about 8 percent of the country\'s overall U.S. imports by value, according to U.S. government data.On the reported offer to increase U.S. semiconductor imports, it is unclear how U.S. chips would replace South Korean and Taiwanese chips, since there is minimal overlap between U.S. chips and those of the two Asian producers.China is heavily dependent on foreign semiconductors, one of its biggest import categories by value. That said, the U.S. accounted for just 1 percent of China\'s total semiconductor imports last year by value, according to Reuters calculations based on Chinese customs data.(Reporting by Ryan Woo; Additional reporting by David Lawder in Washington and Matthew Miller, Ben Blanchard, Elias Glenn and Stella Qiu in Beijing; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore and Kim Coghill)
WASHINGTON  President Trumps promise to take tough action against Chinas unfair economic practices was one of his most popular campaign ideas. But as the United States prepares stiff trade measures and China retaliates, stock markets have plummeted and some of Americas biggest companies are pushing back.Industry giants like General Electric and Goldman Sachs, as well as agricultural companies, have lodged objections with the White House, saying that tariffs on both sides of the Pacific and limitations on investments will cut off American companies from the worlds most lucrative and rapidly growing market.China imposed tariffs on Monday on more than 100 American products, including pork, fruit, recycled aluminum and steel pipes. Fears of an incipient trade war between the worlds two largest economies sent the Standard & Poors 500-stock index tumbling 2.23 percent and pushed markets into correction territory. Technology stocks bore the brunt of the slump, as a recent spate of bad news about tech companies like Facebook, Tesla and Amazon spooked investors. Asian and European markets fell more modestly in early Tuesday trading.Chinas action could be an escalation in a much broader trade dispute. The announcement was a direct response to the Trump administrations tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, which were directed at a range of countries, including China.Since then, the White House has announced another trade measure targeted at China that would place tariffs on at least $50 billion worth of products imported to the United States and would restrict investment flows between the two economic giants. This week, the Trump administration is expected to announce a list of Chinese imports subject to tariffs, which could include high-tech products like semiconductors as well as cheap electronics and other goods that many Americans buy.Josh Kallmer, the senior vice president for global policy at the Information Technology Industry Council, an advocate for companies like Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft and IBM, said his group had been largely supportive of the administrations targeting of Chinas unfair trade practices. But the group had made it clear to the White House that it would not be pleased with any measure that had tariffs as the primary or even a significant remedy.The reason is that it would be a tax on consumers, Mr. Kallmer said, precisely the people we are trying to support.Many of the trade measures that Mr. Trump has proposed, including the steel and aluminum tariffs, have divided his advisers, the business community and the Republican Party. But the White House has boasted that its targeting of Chinas trade practices has broad support from industries on the losing end of the Chinese approach.That theory could make it more difficult for American companies to operate in a country that already puts up steep barriers.American companies and business groups have frequently complained that China blocks off valuable markets from American competition, including technology, media and finance, and that it does so in violation of commitments it made when it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. China has imposed regulations that require American companies to share their technology with Chinese partners, for example, mandating that foreign companies operate through joint ventures if they want access to Chinese consumers. At times, the Chinese have resorted to stealing vital technologies through cyberwarfare, according to United States authorities.Late last month, the White House said it would crack down on that behavior, outlining a series of actions aimed at punishing China for its trade barriers.As Mr. Trump advances a series of tough trade measures to confront these behaviors, however, cracks have appeared in American industrys seemingly united front.Companies in technology, investment and other industries now say that the measures the administration is taking to help them may actually end up doing irreparable harm to supply chains they have built up over decades. Any American company that wants to be a global player cannot afford to lose access to Chinas growing market, executives say.Technology companies argue that the restrictive measures the administration is taking to help protect them could end up penalizing American manufacturing, raising costs and making their companies less competitive globally. And industries most vulnerable to retaliation, like agriculture, are protesting about losing valuable export opportunities. While the Chinese did not target soybeans in their initial tariffs list, many in the soybean industry worry they will be penalized in a trade dispute given Chinas importance as a market for exports.The 25 percent tariff on pork that China imposed on Monday is expected to be particularly harmful, including in regions that supported the president, like Iowa, North Carolina and Indiana. Last year, American farmers sent more than a billion dollars worth of pork to China, their largest export market by value after Japan and Mexico.Because were so blessed to have America feed the world, were also the first industry to get slammed whenever there are trade difficulties between the U.S. and other countries, Denise Bode, the coordinator for the American Fruit and Vegetable Processors and Growers Coalition.American farmers appear to be the first casualties of an escalating trade war, said Max Baucus, a former Democratic senator from Montana and a chairman of a group called Farmers for Free Trade. With farm incomes already declining, farmers rely on export markets to stay above water. These new tariffs are a drag on their ability to make ends meet.Since Mr. Trump announced the China measures on March 22, American officials, including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and the United States trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, have been in talks with the Chinese about ways to resolve their differences. The sides have discussed concessions like reducing Chinas tariffs on American cars, opening up its market for financial services and purchasing more semiconductors or natural gas, people familiar with the talks said.However, analysts and companies involved in China said that these measures appeared unlikely to adequately resolve American concerns about Chinas longstanding encroachment on American intellectual property.Companies are waiting anxiously for the administration to release a list of Chinese products this week that will be subject to tariffs  most likely the kind of high-tech products that the administration has accused China of targeting. The retail industry, which lobbied the administration and Congress against an early plan to impose tariffs on Chinese-made apparel and footwear, is now cautiously optimistic that its products will be exempt.Restrictions on Chinese investment are expected to follow in the coming weeks. Administration officials have said those rules will aim to restore reciprocity with the Chinese, though it is not clear if the United States will go so far as to bar Chinese companies from investing in the same industries that China restricts. The White House is also considering the use of an emergency economy powers act that could allow it to restrict Chinese investments.The measures come on top of proposed legislation in Congress to expand the authority of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which reviews foreign deals for national security concerns. Last month, the committee stalled a hostile takeover of Qualcomm, a California-based chip maker, by a Singapore company, largely over concerns about ceding semiconductor prowess to China.G.E. and IBM, which operate through joint ventures and other partnerships in China and around the world, have both lobbied against the expansion of Cfius over concerns that restrictions on joint ventures with foreign companies that include the transfer of valuable skills or technology could weaken the position of American companies abroad.Financial firms, including Goldman Sachs and the Carlyle Group, have also expressed concern about investment restrictions, saying they could provide a drag on the United States economy.White House advisers, in turn, have complained that previous approaches to dealing with China have not worked, and that companies are overreacting to legitimate trade measures.Speaking Monday on CNBC, the White House trade adviser, Peter Navarro, defended the administrations tough actions on China and said investors should not fear a trade war.Everybody needs to relax, Mr. Navarro said. The economy is as strong as an ox.
Anna Chennault, a Chinese-born Republican fund-raiser and anti-Communist lobbyist who dabbled in foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, the renowned leader of the Flying Tigers in China and Burma in World War II, died on Friday at her home in Washington. She was 94.Her death, in her apartment at the Watergate complex, was announced on Tuesday. The cause was complications of a stroke she suffered in December, her daughter Cynthia Chennault said.In her memoir photographs, Mrs. Chennault appears with her husband, Maj. Gen. Claire L. Chennault; with Presidents John F. Kennedy, Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford; with J. Edgar Hoover, director of the F.B.I.; with Gen. William C. Westmoreland, commander of American forces in Vietnam, and with Nguyen Cao Ky, the South Vietnamese vice president who fled to America with the fall of Saigon in 1975.Except for her husbands picture, taken a year before he died in 1958, it is a gallery of Mrs. Chennaults Washington regalia, assembled over many years as an airline executive, hostess, Republican stalwart, advocate for the Chinese Nationalists and South Vietnam, and staunch opponent of the Communist regime that seized power in China in 1949.Mrs. Chennault was one of the most visible private citizens in Washington: a vice president of the Flying Tiger Line, her husbands postwar cargo operation; a writer of novels, poetry and nonfiction books; a Voice of America broadcaster; and the center of a social whirl at her Watergate penthouse that drew in cabinet members, congressmen, diplomats, foreign dignitaries and journalists.But there was a hidden side to Mrs. Chennaults affairs, historians say. She was known to have been a conduit for Nationalist Chinese funds for the Republican Party, and to have been a secret go-between for American officials and Asian leaders like Chiang Kai-shek, the Nationalist Chinese generalissimo, and President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam.And in a contretemps of international intrigue and presidential politics that generated heated debate for years, Mrs. Chennault was recorded on an F.B.I. wiretap helping to sabotage a peace initiative during the Vietnam War in order to promote Nixons victory over Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey in the 1968 presidential election.Soon after President Lyndon B. Johnson announced a halt to the bombing of North Vietnam to ease the way for Paris peace talks that fall, Mrs. Chennault, a behind-the-scenes liaison for Nixons campaign and the Saigon government, was overheard urging South Vietnamese officials to boycott the Paris peace talks, saying they would get a better deal from a Nixon administration if they waited until after the election.That same day, Nov. 2, President Thieu announced that his government would not join the Paris talks. Three days later, Nixon was elected.President Johnson was furious when he learned of Mrs. Chennaults intervention, and considered having her charged under federal statutes with criminally interfering with the conduct of foreign affairs. She was never prosecuted.Nixon lifted the tap on her telephones and awarded her Flying Tiger Line a lucrative Pacific cargo route. But for a supporter who had provided vital Asian contacts and $240,000 in contributions to the Nixon campaign, Mrs. Chennault received no major appointment in his administration, as she had hoped.In her 1980 memoir, The Education of Anna, she denied involvement in the peace talk maneuvers but acknowledged her disappointment with Nixon.The ultimate handshake came months later, at a White House function, when Nixon took me aside and, with intense gratitude, began thanking me for my help in the election, she wrote. Ive certainly paid dearly for it, I pointed out. Yes, I appreciate that, he murmured, suddenly uncomfortable. I know you are a good soldier. Anna Chennault was born Chen Xiangmei in Beijing on June 23, 1923, one of six daughters of P. Y. and Isabelle Liao Chen, members of a prosperous family of diplomats and scholars.Her father taught law at the University of Peking and was editor of the English-language New China Morning Post. She and her sisters grew up in a mansion near the Forbidden City with an entourage of servants and tutors.As Japanese invaders approached Beijing in 1937, her family fled to Hong Kong. Her father became an envoy to Mexico, her mother died, and Anna and her sisters became scattered refugees in occupied China, with family jewels sewn into coat linings. Despite the war, she studied journalism with refugee professors and earned a degree from Lingnan University in 1944.Fluent in Chinese dialects and English, she became a correspondent for Chinas Central News Agency, covering the war and later Mao Zedongs spreading Communist revolution. She met General Chennault in Kunming. He was three decades older, a married father of eight and the hero of the Flying Tigers, who shot down hundreds of Japanese warplanes and kept Chinas hopes alive during the war.In 1947, after his divorce, they were married in Shanghai. Besides Cynthia, they had another daughter, Claire, who also survives her, as do three sisters, Cynthia Lee, Sylvia Wong and Loretta Fung; and two grandsons.The Chennaults lived in Shanghai, San Francisco, the generals hometown, Monroe, La., and Taipei, where they ran the Flying Tiger Line and the Civil Air Transport, which was later owned by the Central Intelligence Agency and used in covert anti-Communist operations.General Chennault died of lung cancer in 1958 at 67, and Mrs. Chennault moved to Washington.She was soon embraced by her husbands friends, including Thomas G. Corcoran, a New Deal strategist who became a notable Washington lobbyist for corporations and foreign powers. He showed her the ropes of lobbying, and she dedicated her memoir to him, calling him the best teacher of them all.In Washington Mrs. Chennault joined the Republican Party and right-wing cadres of influential Americans supporting Taiwan and opposing Communist China. In 1962, with President Kennedys blessing, she founded Chinese Refugees Relief, which assisted thousands fleeing China. She testified in Congress, wrote articles, gave speeches and, from 1963 to 1966, made weekly broadcasts in Chinese on the Voice of America radio.In a penthouse apartment resembling a James Bond movie set overlooking the Potomac, she entertained 80 to 100 people a week, serving concoctions like concubines delight (chicken/snow peas) and negotiators soup (for Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger). At her soirees, Mrs. Chennault, less than 5 feet tall, cut a striking figure in slim Chinese dresses and spike-heeled satin shoes.Her aura of intrigue was only enhanced by evasive replies to reporters questions about possible C.I.A. connections and her frequent travels to Asian countries embroiled in Cold War conflicts. Mrs. Chennault  or the Dragon Lady, as she is called by her enemies  is well-known around Washington as a Vietnam hawk, The New York Times Magazine said in 1970.She chided Nixon for what she called his cautious prosecution of the Vietnam War. He should have gone ahead and done what had to be done  clean it all out, go the whole way, she told Parade magazine.Her image as an implacable anti-Communist was eased in 1981 when she visited Beijing and Taipei for talks with Deng Xiaoping, Chinas leader, and President Chiang Ching-kuo of Taiwan. Acknowledging that her views had softened, she said people must be humble enough to learn, courageous enough sometimes to change their positions.By then, her causes had all been lost. The Vietnam War was over, Chiang Kai-shek and Mao Zedong were dead, and the United States had severed diplomatic relations with Taiwan and recognized the Peoples Republic of China.
RUD, Kosovo  Fetah Rudi, a former schoolteacher and political activist, has been using a wheelchair for 17 years, ever since unidentified gunmen unloaded 14 bullets into his stomach and shoulder in a drive-by shooting near his small village in central Kosovo.He has no hope of ever walking again but, thanks to a new war crimes tribunal, he finally has some hope that, after 10 years as an independent country, Kosovo will belatedly grapple with a singularly taboo topic: why ethnic Albanians like him kept getting attacked and in some cases killed even after their Serbian tormentors had fled.He has watched in dismay over the years as the United Nations and then the European Union  which have both tried to establish the rule of law in this tiny Balkan nation since it broke free from Serbia in 1999  failed to deliver justice for a wave of violence that followed Serbias retreat.The new court, based in The Hague but governed by Kosovo law, will focus on judging not Serbian atrocities during the 1998-99 war but crimes committed during and after the conflict by the Kosovo Liberation Army, or K.L.A., an ethnic Albanian guerrilla force whose former commanders now run the country.The court, Mr. Rudi said, is the last chance to finally make our people free.In the nearly two decades since it split from Serbia, Kosovo has been governed as a United Nations protectorate and, since February 2008, as an independent state. Throughout that time, it has been dogged by demons left from its violent birth and a culture of impunity left by its failure to come to terms with the fact that some of Kosovos most powerful figures have been accused of major crimes.The special court, which is expected to issue its first indictments soon, is supported by the United States and Europe, Kosovos main backers and funders. But it poses risks for them, too, as it will examine crimes directly related to the foundation of the Wests state-building project in Kosovo: its alliance with the K.L.A. during NATOs bombing campaign against Serbia in 1999; its failure to disarm the K.L.A. after the war ended; and its inability to protect not only ethnic Serb residents who stayed behind, but also the K.L.As ethnic Albanian political rivals.In a sign that United States support for the court is perhaps flagging under President Trump, the American chief prosecutor, David Schwendiman, stepped down recently after the State Department declined to extend his appointment by two years to enable him to complete his term with the court, despite assurances during the Obama administration that he would be able to do so.Mr. Rudi said the bullets that nearly killed him in December 2000  18 months after the end of the war and the departure of Serbian forces  were shot from the same gun that a month earlier had been used to murder Xhemajl Mustafa, a prominent journalist.Both attacks occurred despite the presence of more than 45,000 NATO troops in Kosovo, a force that, wary of confronting the K.L.A., did little to halt post-conflict score settling.Both Mr. Rudi and Mr. Mustafa were outspoken supporters of the Democratic League of Kosovo, an originally pacifist group led by Ibrahim Rugova that shared the K.L.A.s desire to end Serbian oppression but, once the Serbs left, challenged the self-declared right of the groups fighters to run Kosovo as their own fief.The expectation of imminent indictments has delighted Mr. Rudi, who was held in a secret K.L.A. prison and violently beaten toward the end of the war and, after the conflict ended, was targeted for assassination by what he suspected was a K.L.A. hit squad. He said he would leave Kosovo and move to Western Europe with his wife and four children if the court flubbed its mission.The prospect of the courts digging into cold cases left from Kosovos birth as a separate state has sent former K.L.A. members  who include the countrys president, prime minister and speaker of Parliament  into a panic. They tried in December to torpedo the special court with legislation that would have emasculated its function. They backed off after the United States and the European Union protested the move in unusually strong terms. The American ambassador, Greg Delawie, called it a stab in the back.In an interview on the eve of a visit to Washington in February to attend a prayer breakfast with President Trump, President Hashim Thaci  the K.L.A.s political commissar during the war, when he was known to his comrades as the snake  denounced the special court as a historic injustice but pledged to let it proceed.We have nothing to hide, he said, insisting that the K.L.A. as an organization never imprisoned or murdered its ethnic Albanian rivals, massacred Serbian civilians or committed other war crimes, despite the persistent allegations that prompted the establishment of the special court.Mr. Thaci (pronounced THAH-chee) conceded that some individuals in the K.L.A. had taken the law into their own hands, and he said he wanted to see their crimes punished. At the same time, he complained that you cant put an equal sign between the crimes of the Serbs and those of the K.L.A.Few if any Kosovars would dispute that but, with Serbian forces long gone, many are asking why so few of the hopes raised by the K.L.A.s NATO-enabled victory in 1999 have been fulfilled  why nearly 60 percent of young people are unemployed, why corrupt politicians, many of them former K.L.A. fighters, can ransack the economy with impunity, and why witnesses in criminal cases against senior K.L.A. figures keep disappearing or refusing to testify.We thought it would be completely different, said Mr. Rudi, the former teacher. We thought we would have a functioning country with laws, institutions, security and a developed economy. We never thought there would be all this killing and stealing.Beriane Mustafa, the daughter of the murdered journalist, said she did not know who killed her father, but I do know it was a political murder, probably by political opponents. Mr. Mustafas murder and the attack on Mr. Rudi followed the defeat of the K.L.A., which had been reconfigured as a political party, in local elections in early October 2000.The timing, Ms. Mustafa said, suggested a kind of revenge by fighters who, furious at being denied the political support they thought they deserved, calculated that if we kill these people we will come to power.By 2007, the K.L.A.s political party was the countrys dominant political force. Mr. Thaci became prime minister in 2008, one month before Kosovo declared independence, and then president in 2016.Mr. Thaci has become the emblem of two diametrically opposed views of Kosovos liberation struggle and its aftermath. In 2010, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. described him as Kosovos George Washington, the nations heroic founding father. A report issued the same year by the Council of Europe, however, described him as the most dangerous of the K.L.A.s criminal bosses.The report had been commissioned after ghoulish allegations of organ trafficking by the K.L.A. appeared in a book published by Carla del Ponte, the former chief prosecutor at United Nations war crime tribunals in The Hague.Written by the Swiss prosecutor Dick Marty, the report portrayed Kosovo as a failed state run by gangsters and thugs. It caused outrage in Kosovo across the political spectrum, mostly because it repeated Ms. del Pontes claims that the K.L.A. had killed Serbian prisoners for their organs. But it nonetheless set in motion calls for a reckoning that led to the establishment of the special court.The accusation of wartime organ theft has never been substantiated, but the issue continues to haunt Kosovo, fueled in part by the discovery in 2008 of an organ trafficking ring operating out of a medical center near the capital, Pristina. The man accused of leading the ring, an Israeli citizen, Moshe Harel, was arrested in January in Cyprus.Clint Williamson, an American appointed by the European Union in 2011 to head an investigation into Mr. Martys allegations, concluded that the practice of killing prisoners for their organs did occur on a very limited scale but that finding evidence to prove it would be very difficult.Instead, he said, future indictments against former K.L.A. commanders should focus on their responsibility for a campaign of persecution directed at Serbs and other minority groups, as well as toward fellow Kosovo Albanians whom they labeled either to be collaborators with the Serbs or, more commonly, to have simply been political opponents of the K.L.A. leadership.In his interview in February, Mr. Thaci dismissed the Marty report as part of a Russian-orchestrated program of fake news, a farrago of lies and disinformation intended to undermine Western influence in the Balkans.Calling Kosovo the most pro-American country in the world, he said that by blackening its name, Russia, a firm ally of Serbia, wanted to damage the United States. He produced no evidence that Russia had a hand in Mr. Martys report.Whether the special court can get to the bottom of what happened nearly 20 years ago will depend to a large extent on whether witnesses will agree to testify and, if they do, whether they and their family members can survive.When a former K.L.A. commander living abroad, Agim Zogaj, agreed in 2011 to testify against former comrades in a war crimes trial, he was put into a witness protection program run by the European Union. Before the trial could start, he was found hanging from a tree in the western German city of Duisburg.Ms. Mustafa, the daughter of the murdered journalist, said she was not optimistic about the courts ability to succeed where the United Nations and European Union had failed, but added, If you want to consider yourself a real state, a serious state, you have to deal with all crimes, no matter who committed them.
FRANKFURT  Stocks in the United States were up slightly Tuesday morning after a tough day on Wall Street had sent the Standard & Poors 500-stock index down more than 10 percent from its recent peak.Major global indexes followed Wall Streets cue, trading mostly down on Tuesday, though they were largely spared Mondays pain. European stocks were down less than 1 percent in midafternoon trading, and stocks in Asia finished the day mixed.Investors around the world have recently been reacting to the same set of uncertainties, including growing concern over the prospect of a full-blown trade war between the United States and China.The recent downswing came on the heels of an extended period of calm in the markets. They have risen over the past couple of years as the economies of the United States, Europe and China appeared to be humming along together at a healthy clip for the first time in years.And the markets are still up more than 20 percent since November 2016, when Donald J. Trump won the presidency  a roller-coaster ride driven in part by expectations about what his administration could bring to Washington.But after such a long run-up, many investors have naturally begun to wonder how much longer the good times will last.We think the time has come to reassess the one-way bet on a continued and strengthening global economic expansion, Carl B. Weinberg, chief international economist at High Frequency Economics in White Plains, N.Y., said in a note to clients on Tuesday.Mondays slump in the United States, however, had another driver that world markets did not: big-name technology companies.Amazon, Facebook, Intel, Microsoft and Tesla were among the major contributors to Mondays stock slump on Wall Street. Amazon faces pressure from President Trump, while Facebook continues to grapple with privacy concerns and Tesla has been hit by a succession of negative headlines.Tech shares were among the worst performers in other markets too, like China, Hong Kong and Japan, though the worlds biggest technology companies primarily trade in the United States  in part to reach global investors.. Shares of Alibaba, a Chinese online retailer, joined the American tech rout on Monday, falling more than 3 percent, while shares of the Chinese search company Baidu fell more than 1 percent.The woes of tech companies may even be positive for some European companies. Teslas battery powered cars and self-driving technology were a threat to European luxury carmakers like BMW, Daimler and Volkswagens Audi unit, which remain heavily invested in internal combustion engines.But Tesla has had trouble ramping up production fast enough to meet demand, and its vehicles have suffered quality problems. On Tuesday, the company reported a significant increase in the production of its Model 3 sedans in the first quarter of 2018 compared with the previous quarter, though it failed to meet previously announced production targets. The companys difficulties have added credence to the argument that German carmakers have made all along: Mass producing cars is hard, and it will not be easy for new challengers to match the expertise of traditional carmakers.Still, shares of German carmakers were mixed in European trading on Tuesday, as the likes of BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen depend heavily on sales in Asia and would suffer from any economic turmoil there.
SYDNEY   Asian share markets faltered on Wednesday as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take positions in anything.Safe-haven bonds, gold and the yen had run into selling as Wall Street benefited from bets that President Donald Trump\'s Twitter attacks on Amazon would not translate to actual policy.Yet trade worries weren\'t far away. Late on Tuesday, the Trump administration announced 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion of annual imports from China, covering around 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products.China\'s commerce ministry immediately warned it was preparing countermeasures of equal intensity."The largest concern remains whether this trade tension could further escalate, but history suggests negotiation is likely to follow," said Tai Hui, chief market strategist for Asia Pacific at J.P. Morgan Asset Management."That would provide some much needed short term relief to investors and allow them to focus back on economic and corporate fundamentals, which are still in decent shape."For now, caution was the watchword and MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was wavering either side of flat.Japan\'s Nikkei added 0.1 percent in thin volumes, while South Korea eased 0.2 percent. EMini futures for the S&P 500 <ESc1> also dipped 0.2 percent.Wall Street had rallied on Tuesday as investors looked forward to earnings season and the S&P 500 pushed above a key support level. The Dow ended up 1.65 percent, while the S&P 500 gained 1.26 percent and the Nasdaq 1.04 percent.Amazon.com shares bounced 1.5 percent on reports the White House would not take action even as Trump continued his attacks on the online retailer.FACTORIES FADE A LITTLEThe swing in risk sentiment sucked some strength out of bonds, with yields on U.S. 10-year Treasury debt <US10YT=RR> up five basis points overnight to 2.78 percent.The Japanese yen also edged back, with the dollar rising to 106.50 <JPY=> from a low of 105.70 on Tuesday. The euro hovered at $1.2275 <EUR=>, after easing from a top of $1.2335 overnight, while the dollar index was a fraction lower at 90.109.The Canadian dollar <CAD=> held firm after hitting a nearly five-week high as investors grew more optimistic about the prospect of a NAFTA trade deal.Investors also seemed to be keeping their nerve on the global economic outlook after a host of manufacturing surveys (PMIs) showed some slowing, but from lofty levels in many regions."If global PMIs slow and avoid overheating concerns, that is good for risk appetite. If they slow for "the wrong reasons" like trade protectionism, that is much more worrying," said Deutsche Bank global strategist Alan Ruskin."The March data is at the most a very early warning shot for policymakers not to get too complacent on global growth resilience," he added.Trade wars were a particular concern for developing Asia where South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, China, Indonesia, and India reported a slowing in factory activity.In commodity markets, gold had steadied around $1,332.90 an ounce <XAU=>, having lost 0.6 percent overnight.Oil prices slipped with Brent crude futures <LCOc1> off 13 cents to $67.99 a barrel, while U.S. crude <CLc1> fell 11 cents to $63.40 a barrel.(Editing by Jacqueline Wong and Sam Holmes)
WASHINGTON  The Trump administration said Tuesday that it will place a 25 percent tariff on Chinese products like flat-screen televisions, medical devices, aircraft parts and batteries, outlining more than 1,300 imported goods that will soon face levies as part of a sweeping trade measure aimed at penalizing China for its trade practices.The move, which stems from a White House investigation into Chinas use of pressure, intimidation and theft to obtain American technologies, is likely to inflame an already-simmering trade war between the countries. On Monday, China said it would slap tariffs on 128 American products in response to a separate White House plan to tax steel and aluminum from China and other countries.The products targeted by the White House are part of its plan to go after Chinas dominance in cutting-edge technologies like semiconductors, electric vehicles and advanced medical products  industries that China is pursuing dominance in as part of an industrial plan known as Made in China 2025.The Trump administration said that its analysts had identified products that benefit from these policies but refined the list to remove goods that were likely to cause disruptions to the United States economy or consumers.The list of goods excludes many Chinese-made consumer products available for sale at Target or Walmart, including clothing, shoes and toys. But it will most likely increase costs for American manufacturers that depend on imported parts because it concentrates heavily on machinery and high-tech components. The tariffs will be imposed on a total of $50 billion worth of Chinese products each year.The designation of targeted products will be followed by a comment period in which American companies can provide feedback to the Trump administration on the product choices. The administration will hold a public hearing on the submissions on May 15 in Washington, and companies will have until May 22 to file final objections.Business groups, concerned about the effect on companies and workers, swiftly criticized the move.Unilaterally imposing $50 billion of new tariffs without a long-term strategy that leads to economic reforms in China will only hurt Americas businesses, workers, and families, the Business Roundtable, a corporate trade group, said in a statement. Instead, the administration should work with U.S. allies on an approach that advances meaningful reform in China without imposing significant harm on Americas economy.Jay Timmons, the president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said that American manufacturers were concerned about the trade relationship with China, including intellectual property theft, counterfeit goods and unfair subsidies, but also that tariffs were not the best response.In a strongly worded statement on Tuesday, the Chinese Embassy in the United States condemned the tariffs. Such unilateralistic and protectionist action has gravely violated fundamental principles and values of the W.T.O., the statement said. It serves neither Chinas interest, nor U.S. interest, even less the interest of the global economy.The Chinese would resort to measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products in accordance with Chinese law, the statement said.While many American companies say they are unfairly treated in China, they have rued the possibility of a trade war between the worlds two largest economies, and the economic harm it could cause, and have begun pushing back against the White Houses plans. China remains a crucial and growing market for companies like John Deere and Apple, as well as for soybean farmers and growers of other agricultural products.Financial markets fell sharply on Monday as China imposed its own retaliatory tariffs on American products but regained most of their lost territory on Tuesday.President Trump, who has repeatedly promised tough action on Chinas trade practices, said Tuesday that he intended to get along with China but that its unfair trade behavior had gone on too long. Its not something we can live with, Mr. Trump said at the White House, adding, I campaigned on that.Trump advisers have criticized past administrations for allowing China to receive the benefits of global trade while continuing to break the international trade rules imposed by organizations like the World Trade Organization  a charge China denies.But the administration has struggled to persuade its critics that the kind of tough trade measures Mr. Trump favors can alter Chinas behavior without tipping the world into a trade war and ultimately harming American workers and consumers. In addition to the tariffs, the White House is preparing to restrict Chinese investment in American technology and innovation, and to start a case against China at the World Trade Organization.The administration is rightly focused on restoring equity and fairness in our trade relationship with China, said Myron Brilliant, an executive vice president and the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. However, imposing taxes on products used daily by American consumers and job creators is not the way to achieve those ends.The Coalition for a Prosperous America, an organization that has supported the presidents trade agenda, called the China action a shift from nave to strategic trade. The age of appeasement must end, said Paola Masman, the groups media director.But the administrations trade measures are prompting concern among many American companies, who are wary of Beijings response.The United States largest exports to China last year were aircraft and aircraft parts, which totaled more than $16 billion, according to IHS Markit. These products featured heavily on Tuesdays list, setting off fears that China could retaliate with similar penalties against American plane maker Boeing.Dan Stohr, a spokesman for the Aerospace Industries Association, said the group was still reviewing the tariff list but would almost certainly file comments with the administration.Farming communities, one of the countrys largest exporters and a solid base for Mr. Trump, are among the most vulnerable. Chinese tariffs of 25 percent will particularly hurt American pork farmers, who sent more than $1 billion worth of products to China last year.Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, said American farmers were already struggling to make ends meet. Increasing tariffs on exports will harm Iowa producers and undermine the rural economy, Ms. Ernst said. Its my hope that we can pursue policies that enhance our competitiveness, rather than reduce our access to foreign markets.
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration on Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade showdown with China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing\'s intellectual property practices.The U.S. tariff unveiling, representing about $50 billion of estimated 2018 imports and aimed at dealing a setback to China\'s efforts to upgrade its manufacturing base, drew an immediate condemnation from Beijing, along with a threat of retaliatory action.China\'s Ministry of Commerce said it "will soon take measure of equal intensity and scale against U.S. goods.""We have the confidence and ability to respond to any protectionist measures by the United States," the ministry said in a statement quoted by the official Xinhua news agency.The ministry did not reveal any specific countermeasures, but economists widely view imports of U.S. soybeans, aircraft and machinery as prime targets for trade retaliation.The tariff list from the U.S. Trade Representative\'s office followed China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruits, nuts, pork and wine to protest new U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs imposed last month by U.S. President Donald Trump.The standoff between the world\'s two largest economies has sparked market fears that they could spiral into a trade war that could crush global growth.Asian share markets were mixed amid trade tension concerns, with Japan\'s Nikkei 225 off 0.1 percent but Shanghai\'s main index poised to open 0.3 percent higher.MANY CONSUMER ELECTRONICS EXCLUDEDThe USTR list  ranged from chemicals to light-emitting diodes to machine parts,  but U.S. industry groups warned it would still hit supply chains that rely on Chinese components and would ultimately raise costs for consumers.Many consumer electronics products such as cellphones made by Apple Inc. and laptops made by Dell were excluded, as were footwear and clothing, drawing a sigh of relief from retailers who had feared higher costs for American consumers.But the USTR did include some key consumer products from China, including flat-panel television sets and motor vehicles, both electric and gasoline-powered with engines of 3 liters or less.A Reuters analysis that compared listed products with 2017 Census Bureau import data showed $3.9 billion in flat-panel television imports, and $1.4 billion in vehicle imports from China.Among vehicles likely to be hit with tariffs is General Motors Co\'s Buick Envision sport-utility vehicle, which is assembled in China and sold in the United States. Volvo, owned by China\'s Geely Motors, also exports Chinese-built vehicles to the United States.More than 200 products on the list saw no U.S. imports last year, including large aircraft and communication satellites, while some categories were highly unlikely to ever be imported, such as artillery weapons.Publication of the tariff lists starts a public comment and consultation period expected to last around two months, after which USTR said it would issue a "final determination" on the product list. It has scheduled a May 15 public hearing on the tariffs.China ran a $375 billion goods trade surplus with the United States in 2017, a figure that Trump has demanded be cut by $100 billion.ALGORITHM SHIELDS U.S. CONSUMERSUSTR developed the tariff targets using a computer algorithm designed to choose products that would inflict maximum pain on Chinese exporters, but limit the damage to U.S. consumers.A USTR official said the product list got an initial scrub by removing products identified as likely to cause disruptions to the U.S. economy and those that needed to be excluded for legal reasons."The remaining products were ranked according to the likely impact on U.S. consumers, based on available trade data involving alternative country sources for each product," the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters.USTR said the China tariffs announced on Tuesday were proposed "in response to Chinas policies that coerce American companies into transferring their technology and intellectual property to domestic Chinese enterprises."The agency added that such policies "bolster Chinas stated intention of seizing economic leadership in advanced technology as set forth in its industrial plans."China has denied that its laws require technology transfers and has threatened to retaliate against any U.S. tariffs with trade sanctions of its own, with potential targets such as U.S. soybeans, aircraft or heavy equipment.2025 PROGRAM TARGETEDA USTR official said the tariff list targeted products that benefit from China\'s industrial policies, including the "Made in China 2025" program, which aims to replace advanced technology imports with domestic products and build a dominant position in future industries.The state-led 2025 program targets 10 strategic industries:  advanced information technology, robotics, aircraft, new energy vehicles, pharmaceuticals, electric power equipment, advanced materials, agricultural machinery, shipbuilding and marine engineering and advanced rail equipment.Many products in those segments appear on the list, including antibiotics and industrial robots and aircraft parts.U.S. business groups reacted cautiously, saying they agreed with Trump\'s efforts to stop the theft of U.S. intellectual property, but questioning whether tariffs were the right approach."Tariffs are one proposed response, but they are likely to create new challenges in the form of significant added costs for manufacturers and American consumers," National Association of Manufacturers President Jay Timmons said in a statement.U.S. Senator Marco Rubio said in a letter to Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that he was glad to see "bold" action against China."These necessary actions constitute an important break with the appeasement of previous administrations, and provide an opportunity to chart a new course for Americas relationship with this strategic competitor," Rubio wrote.(Reporting by David Lawder; Additional reporting by Jason Lange, Ginger Gibson, Steve Holland and David Chance in Washington; Editing by Peter Cooney)
LONDON   European stocks retreated on Tuesday as investors began the second quarter in a fragile mood amid international trade tensions and mounting pressure on big technology companies.The pan-European STOXX 600 ended the day down 0.5 percent after falling more than 1 percent earlier in the session. The index was supported in afternoon trading by a slight rebound on Wall Street.Germany\'s DAX was a clear underperformer, losing about 0.8 percent while industrials, financials and healthcare stocks weighed on European indexes.The tech sector dropped 0.8 percent, after an overnight report that Apple plans to replace Intel chips in Macs with its own.The index has fallen about 7.5 percent in the past three weeks as anxiety grew over big tech companies with the focus on Facebook\'s use of data, and regulation of Amazon.Reports of Apple increasingly going down the "insourcing" route have dented shares in Apple suppliers around the world, most notably Europe\'s Dialog Semiconductor, down 3.5 percent.STMicro shed 2.9 percent, while ams declined 2.3 percent and Infineon fell 2.1 percent.Risk appetite was poor across the board, as European investors followed U.S. and Asian investors to the exit after China retaliated against U.S. tariffs."We believe that risk-reward for stocks has not turned medium-term negative, and would be adding at these levels," wrote JP Morgan strategists in a note.Equities have again entered "oversold" territory, they said, adding, however, that headwinds for technology stocks were increasing.Outside the tech sector, food services group Sodexo 4.5 percent after Goldman Sachs (GS) cut the stock to "neutral". Sodexo had already suffered a 15.7 percent decline after warning on profit in the previous session."We now see the pick-up of competitive pressures is unlikely to go away in the short term, while company profit continues to suffer from intensifying labour inflation in the region," GS analysts wrote.Air France shares fell 4.4 percent. The carrier\'s unions called a strike for wage increases amid a wider labour stoppage across France paralysing rail services.Acquisition news also continued to move the European market.Eurofins Scientific shares fell 2.1 percent, the worst performers on the STOXX, after the firm acquired Lab Frontier in South Korea.Italy\'s largest private broadcaster Mediaset rose 6.4 percent, after signing a content-sharing deal with Sky\'s Italian unit and paving the way for a broader alliance.Liberum analysts called the deal a "win-win"."This agreement should be a TV advertising revenue booster as it creates larger audiences," they wrote.Berenberg upgraded Mediaset to a "buy", saying the deal marked a "step change in profitability".Also in Italy, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles jumped 7.3 percent after reporting strong U.S. sales.(Reporting by Helen Reid and Julien Ponthus; Editing by Kit Rees and Mark Potter)
LONDON   Britain says it will ban the sale of ivory, no matter how old, to help protect the world\'s elephant population.The government said Tuesday that the ban is the toughest in Europe and will impose a maximum five-year prison sentence for offenders.Environment Secretary Michael Gove says "the abhorrent ivory trade should become a thing of the past."There will be exceptions for some old musical instruments and for works of art, such as portrait miniatures, that are more than a century old.Conservationists say about 20,000 elephants a year are killed for their tusks. David Cowdrey of the International Fund for Animal Welfare says the British ban sends "a clear and unequivocal message that ivory trade is over and rightly being consigned to the history books."
BEIJING   China warned the United States on Thursday not to open Pandora\'s Box and spark a flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in a deepening Sino-U.S. trade dispute.China could target a broad range of U.S. businesses from agriculture to aircraft, autos, semiconductors and even services if the trade conflict escalates, the official China Daily newspaper said in an editorial on Thursday.President Donald Trump\'s move last week to slap up to $60 billion in tariffs on some Chinese imports has since provoked a warning from Beijing that it could retaliate with duties of up to $3 billion of U.S. imports.China\'s biggest U.S. imports are aircraft and related equipment, soybeans and autos, with the total bill about $40 billion last year."The malicious practices of the United States are like opening Pandora\'s Box, and there is a danger of triggering a chain reaction that will spread the virus of trade protectionism across the globe," a commerce ministry spokesman said.The official line from China continues to be stern even as Beijing says it is all for dialogue and negotiations. The feedback from U.S. and Chinese officials on the nature and extent of trade talks remains mixed, media reports show.The Financial Times reported only on Monday that China had offered to buy more U.S. micro-chips and move more quickly to finalize rules allowing foreign firms to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, citing people briefed on the negotiations.Chinese customs data shows the U.S. accounted for just $11 billion, or about 4 percent, of China\'s total semiconductor imports last year by value, with suppliers in South Korea, Taiwan and Japan commanding a bigger share. Semiconductors comprise chips, diodes and transistors.But a source in the U.S. semiconductor industry said U.S. companies have slightly more than 50 percent of China\'s market for chips, though export data does not reflect that because much of the product is sent offshore for low value added processing.The source said the U.S. semiconductor industry had not asked the Trump administration to urge China to buy more U.S. chips and had been told by senior U.S. officials that the U.S. government had not made such a request to Beijing."We don\'t need China to buy more chips," the source said, adding that U.S. industry was concerned about being targeted by Chinese non-tariff barriers."It\'s more about (Chinese) subsidies, IP protection, and cyber rules," the source said, referring to concerns over Chinese retaliation.China has long said it would like to import more U.S. high-tech goods, including high-end chips, but has been stymied by U.S. export controls set on national security grounds.The Trump administration is accusing Chinese firms of stealing intellectual property and forcing U.S. firms to share commercial secrets - allegations that China denies.On Thursday, China\'s State Council, or cabinet, said  transfers of Chinese intellectual property rights to foreign investors will be reviewed if national security is determined to be at stake, or if core technological innovations are involved.Government approval will also be needed for intellectual property transfers involving semiconductors, software and agriculture.SERVICES MAY BE TARGETEDChina\'s commerce ministry said on Thursday the U.S. approach to trade could trigger a domino effect and U.S. trade protectionism will only hurt U.S. consumers.While China hopes the U.S. will resolve trade conflicts with China through dialogue, it will take all possible steps to protect its interests, ministry spokesman Gao Feng told a regular briefing in Beijing."Negotiations must be equal, and China will not accept any consultation under unilateral coercion," Gao said.On Wednesday, Trump\'s top trade envoy said he would give China a 60-day window before tariffs on Chinese goods take effect, but added that it would take years to bring the two countries\' trading relationship "to a good place."The tariff list is expected in the next several days.The China Daily on Thursday quoted Premier Li Keqiang as telling a U.S. Congressional delegation this week that China was open to dialogue but "fully prepared with countermeasures".It warned that if the conflict continued to escalate "China could consider taking reciprocal measures against U.S. imports of agricultural products besides soybeans, as well as aircraft, automobiles and semiconductors.""And should the Trump administration further obstruct Chinese investments in the U.S., even tougher measures such as restrictions on imports of U.S. services and similar investment reviews would likely be on the table," it said.Separately, Hong Kong\'s South China Morning Post reported on Thursday that U.S. and Chinese officials had been holding talks to shield American soybeans and other agricultural products from trade sanctions.China is still considering import curbs on U.S. soybeans, U.S. Soybean Export Council Asia director Paul Burke said on Thursday, following a meeting with the Ministry of Agriculture.(Reporting by Se Young Lee and Yawen Chen in BEIJING; Additional reporting by Michael Martina, John Ruwitch, Dominique Patton and Stella Qiu; Additional writing by Ryan Woo; Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Kim Coghill)
LA LINEA DE LA CONCEPCION, Spain   Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each containing 30 kilograms (66 pounds) of Moroccan hashish.In little over two minutes, most of the cargo has filled two full-size SUVs. All seats but the drivers\' have been removed. The lights are off and the windows have been darkened with black spray.Then, somebody yells: "Cut it! Cut it!"As fast as they came, the SUVs speed away and the smugglers find shelter in the narrow streets of the La Atunara fishing neighborhood. The boat vanishes into the night, still holding half of its cargo. When a patrol car arrives seconds later, all that remains is the sound of the waves.Another night, another chapter in the battle between Spanish authorities and the crime gangs who have turned this neglected town in the shadow of the Rock of Gibraltar into a key European entry point for Moroccan cannabis resin."Right now, we are losing this battle," said Francisco Mena, leader of Nexos, a federation of local community action groups that offer rehab for drug addicts. "Trafficking can\'t be stopped with the human resources and material means that we have in place at the moment."He insisted the war could still be won. But such optimism flies in the face of the brazen drug operations witnessed by Associated Press journalists, and of the very words of drug chieftains who agreed to rare interviews.One of the area\'s most notorious "narcos" insisted that the illicit trade is here to stay."Trafficking has always existed, and it always will. If not here, it will move elsewhere along the coast," said the gang leader, who like others spoke on condition that they not be named because they feared prosecution. "If drug trafficking didn\'t end in Colombia with death penalties and extraditions to the United States, nobody will end it here."Half a dozen trafficking ring members and their leaders pointed to the 30 percent provincial jobless rate in the Cadiz province, the highest in the country, as a fuel for their criminal activity. They claimed that shipping drugs is a way of life in this forgotten corner, justifying it as a "necessary bad" that feeds hundreds of families directly, and thousands more indirectly."Many of us are fathers. We need to take food home," said another gangster who asked to be identified as Pepe. "If we couldn\'t provide for our children this way, another kind of violence would come."Three dozen clans are believed to be working in Campo de Gibraltar, a county of 268,000 that cradles the Bay of Algeciras. On a clear day, the contours of the coast of Morocco, the world\'s top producer of hashish, are visible across a busy shipping waterway at the mouth of the Mediterranean, just 30 kilometers (less than 19 miles) away.A new generation of bolder gangsters is challenging underfunded law enforcement agencies, as local families watch their teenagers lured into a life of easy money."The national government needs to do more, and not only when the media\'s attention is here," said Mena. "When the state disappears, what appears is impunity."___Criminals that in the past dropped their few hundred kilograms of cargo in the sea as soon as they came across a customs surveillance boat are now ready to defend their bigger, bulkier shipments.The RIBs, or rigid-hulled inflatable boats known as "rubbers," are partially to blame. With three, four and even five 350-horsepower engines, they can ship an average cargo of 1 to 3 tons of hashish in over one hour from northern Moroccan shores. A trafficker told the AP he held the local record: 178 stashes, or 5.3 tons, in a single shipment.Car chases at high-speeds and personal threats to judges, prosecutors and underpaid, short-handed officers have now become common.On land and at sea, traffickers use shuttle vehicles  SUVs or rubbers without cargo whose function is to mislead authorities and, increasingly, ram patrol cars and boats.So far, casualties have been higher on the traffickers\' side. Two years ago, four traffickers died when a patrol vessel sailed over their rubber, prompting angry protests against the authorities.According to police investigators and drug traffickers themselves, the uptick in violence is also related to inter-gang burglaries of drug cargo from beaches or from hundreds of "kindergartens"  storage spaces, often in local homes. These "vuelcos" are often the work of outsiders, the sources said, frequently gangs from Eastern Europe."The earlier generation had a respect for police uniform but there is now a new generation that has an absolute contempt for authority," says Juan Franco, the mayor of La Linea, "My worry is that these guys are armed and so far, they are not using them against civil guard or police agents, but that\'s the next step."Fears that civilians could also be caught in the crossfire reached a height last month when a group of drug traffickers stormed the emergency ward in La Linea\'s public hospital. The assailants freed Samuel Crespo, a top aide and nephew to Los Castanitas, two brothers who run the town\'s most influential drug clans.Police say there were at least 20 attackers, armed with sticks and knives. Witnesses have disputed the official account, saying a handful of unarmed youngsters took Crespo away with little resistance from their two custodians. The attacked policemen said using their guns inside the busy emergency ward would have escalated things.The events hit a nerve in La Linea, a town of 63,000. "How can a handful of young criminals be so bold to act with such impunity in broad daylight?" asks Mena, the activist. "Why were there only two policemen guarding a prominent gangster? And why didn\'t they have any other means to stop the attackers?"Outrage increased when news emerged that the fugitive was taken in a jet ski across the Strait of Gibraltar for treatment in a private clinic in northern Morocco. A police investigation led to the arrests of two of those involved in the attack, in addition to one person that was detained on the spot at the hospital.Crespo himself is now back in Spain according to his aides\' account. He remains at large.A week after the attack, the country\'s Interior Minister descended on the town with an entourage of bodyguards and special police forces. Juan Ignacio Zoido\'s visit was timed to announce a police operation that led to the arrest of 16 people, members of a sophisticated gang that had installed radar to monitor patrol boats. Police found it under rooftop solar panels in a waterfront house. They also snatched 4 tons of hashish, 17 vehicles and four firearms.Zoido promised crime squads and additional security measures for the county over coming months.That same morning, a 90-minute drive away, men in hoods entered a guarded compound and stole a speedboat that had been confiscated and held in evidence, along with a truck to pull it.___The Cadiz province, which at its southernmost tip only 14 kilometers (8.6 miles) away from North Africa, already amounts for 40 percent of the drugs entering Spain, according to Interior Ministry figures.Hashish is arriving on these beaches at the pace of seven to 20 loaded rubbers per day, according to calculations by police and traffickers. A Civil Guard operation last year dismantled a network that used dangerous night helicopter journeys to fly drugs into hideouts further inland.The county is also a main entry point for cocaine, Europe\'s second most popular drug according to the region\'s Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addictions. It makes its way concealed in containers and merchant ships docking in Algeciras, across the bay from La Linea.Some of the smuggled drugs are consumed south of the Pyrenees, but most of it up to 90 percent, by some police accounts travels on land to France, Italy and the Netherlands, which plays a central role as a regional distribution hub, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.As in any other business, shipping a stash of hashish involves plenty of stakeholders. The clans operating in and beyond the Campo de Gibraltar are usually family-run and territorial, but only a handful of them are in control of all the phases of the trade.Sooner or later, the job will be outsourced to gangs offering pilots, rubbers, stolen Land Cruisers the most common SUV in their operations or the army of people watching every corner for police presence. Known as "puntos," spotters, they are placed in strategic locations, often with a non-smartphone to alert others. These low-ranking gangsters can make from 600 to 1,000 euros ($700 to 1,200) in just one day, according to traffickers.The "bushmen," as those unloading speedboats and loading Land Cruisers are called, can earn up to 2,000 to 3,000 euros a day. But the best paid in the chain are SUV drivers (10,000-15,000 euros for one job) and rubber pilots, starting from 30,000 euros and rising with the number of hashish bundles they deliver. The owner of a "kindergarten," which can be a family with a basement rented to the traffickers, can make up to 15,000 euros for each day hiding the stash.The smugglers take umbrage at their reputation as a violent, fractured community."Police are looking for a war by pitting us against each other," said a prominent drug lord speaking in a modest safe house where the leaders of half a dozen local gangs, some of them on the run from the law, convened to discuss business. "But this is not Medellin or Sinaloa, and there is no such thing as a Pablo Escobar among us," he said. "There are no assassins here. There are only groups who are good at what they do and others who make mistakes, the same way as police make them.""We, the veterans, are here to stop this from escalating to any kind of violence," he added, eliciting nods from others in the room.A gang member with a walkie-talkie enters announcing that a rubber has arrived. The group moves quickly to the beach, only a few meters away; in an impressive feat of choreography, more than 100 bushmen and spotters unload the craft as reporters and passers-by look on. Only word that a police patrol car is streets way, driving toward the beach, brings an abrupt end to the operation."You see, this is like a game of cat and mouse, but you won\'t see the guns, at least not on our side," said a top associate of Los Castanitas. "I have never stolen or gotten myself involved in anything else that is not the smuggling. Yes, this is illegal, I\'ll give you that. But we are not hurting anyone."___Despite its struggles with trafficking, Spain is the European Union member seizing the largest volumes of both cocaine and cannabis. In 2015, cannabis seizures accounted for more than 70 percent the drug apprehended in the block, according to Eurostat figures. Of the 373 tons of drugs seized in Spain last year, according to the Interior Ministry, 145 tons were cannabis resin confiscated in the Campo de Gibraltar region, a 45 percent increase from the previous year.Still, much more slips through the cracks. Investigators said seizures amount to only 4 to 5 percent of the hashish that could be entering the country.More resources to investigate money laundering would target gang leaders, says Mena.Police unions say that a regional court specialized in drug trafficking would speed up some of the cases, because drug-trafficking probes require large amounts of judicial red tape for wiretapping and other investigating methods.Other proposed remedies range from harsher sentences Spain punishes hashish-trafficking with up to six years if no other crimes involved, whereas sentences can double that in France and the United Kingdom to regulating consumption and sales of cannabis.Mena welcomes recent steps taken by the Spanish government on a bill to restrict the use of large speedboats. He says the European Union should aid Spain, and pressure Morocco for stronger action on its end.But the biggest challenge is local collusion with the drug networks. Revenues feed the local economy, often laundered through beauty parlors, gyms, clothing stores or other small businesses, creating a "narco-economy" that Franco, the mayor of La Linea, describes as "bread for today and hunger for tomorrow."Unemployment in La Linea, at 35 percent in 2016, reaches 80 percent among the youth in its poorest neighborhoods, the mayor\'s office said.In late March, dozens of people in one of the La Linea\'s impoverished neighborhoods protected a trafficker who was being chased by a national police patrol. Police said agents had to fire gunshots into the air to dispel the crowd, but by then their quarry had vanished, leaving behind a car with half a ton of hashish.Still, there are signs that some residents know that drugs are a dead end for their town. On Feb. 27, two weeks after the hospital incident, more than 2,000 people gathered to protest."No more drugs, we want jobs," they shouted.But Franco does not believe that his city has truly turned a corner."Once in a while there is a specific event that creates a catharsis of some kind," he said, "but months on we go back to the same point."___AP photographer Emilio Morenatti contributed to this story.
BRASILIA   Escalating trade tensions between the United States and China are unlikely to hurt global economic growth, Brazilian central bank chief Ilan Goldfajn told Reuters on Tuesday, playing down recent turmoil in Latin American markets.Emerging markets sold off on Monday after China announced retaliatory tariffs against U.S. President Donald Trump\'s protectionist efforts. Goldfajn said he expects global trade tensions to generate short-term uncertainty, but they should eventually be resolved through new trade deals."If at the end of the day we reach new deals, global trade is maintained, this would not affect" global growth, Goldfajn said. "Of course, if there\'s a larger dispute, it would affect (growth)."An uncertain global outlook is one of several factors the bank is weighing as it decides when to end a cycle of interest rate cuts that brought Brazil\'s benchmark interest rate to an all-time low of 6.50 percent.The bank caught many by surprise last month by signalling it would likely cut the benchmark Selic rate by an additional 25 basis points at its May meeting, just a month and a half after hinting at the end of easing.High unemployment rates and widespread idle capacity have kept inflation below the official target range and brought down inflation expectations in the years ahead.Goldfajn has repeatedly said that the bank could "pause" rate cuts in mid-2018 as it assesses the risks going forward.Asked about whether the bank could cut interest rates after that pause ends, Goldfajn was noncommittal."This is not something that we have communicated" he said. "I don\'t think this is the time to issue signals.""Look, if you think about it, I\'m saying that there are two main risks. We will assess both of these risks to the baseline scenario."BLOCKCHAINAsked about efforts by Brazilian banks to eventually use blockchain technology to register certain transactions, Goldfajn said efforts to improve the payments system through innovation are positive and he saw no need for central bank regulation."If over time it becomes necessary, we will regulate, but we don\'t want to be heavy-handed while dealing with innovation - we want it to flourish, to bear fruit," Goldfajn said.His remarks underscored the bank\'s combination of market-based mechanisms and more hard-edged regulations as it tackles longstanding challenges in Brazil such as costly credit and wide banking spreads, which have declined slowly despite loose monetary policy.Last month, for example, the bank introduced a cap on fees paid by businesses to debit card issuers in a move to enhance consumer protections at the expense of an increasingly concentrated banking sector.On the other hand, Goldfajn said he is counting on "self-regulation" to reduce bank overdraft fees and is counting on the private sector to introduce credit card-related products that take less time to pay businesses."Our idea is to neither force nor forbid  nothing of the sort  but rather for the market to offer what already exists today, but with less distortions," he said.(Reporting by Bruno Federowski and Marcela Ayres; Additional reporting by Brad Haynes and Patricia Duarte in Brasilia; Aluisio Alves in Sao Paulo; Editing by Matthew Lewis)
BOSTON   Tom Brady is losing one of his top receivers, and Jared Goff is getting a speedy new target.The New England Patriots traded receiver Brandin Cooks to the Rams on Tuesday for Los Angeles' first-round draft pick, the 23rd overall.New England also sent a fourth-round choice to the Rams, and the Patriots got a sixth-rounder from Los Angeles.The 24-year-old Cooks had 65 catches for 1,082 yards and seven touchdowns in his only season with the Patriots. His receiving stats were second on the defending AFC champions' roster only to tight end Rob Gronkowski, who barely topped Cooks in all three categories.Cooks' clear chemistry with Brady makes the trade fairly surprising for New England, particularly after the recent departure of another favorite Brady target, Danny Amendola, who signed with the Dolphins.But the defending NFC West champion Rams made an aggressive offer to secure a potential No. 1 receiver and proven deep threat just three weeks after the departure of Sammy Watkins, who got a three-year, $48 million deal from the Kansas City Chiefs in free agency.After weeks of rumors about the Rams' interest in acquiring star receiver Odell Beckham Jr. from the New York Giants, they managed to find another elite talent at the position. Cooks' speed and versatility should fit in well in coach Sean McVay's schemes as he lines up alongside Robert Woods and Cooper Kupp in the NFL's highest-scoring offense last season.The trade also appears to be a strategic move on the part of the Patriots: Cooks is entering the fifth year of his rookie contract, and he can become a free agent after the 2018 season.With three 1,000-yard seasons in a four-year pro career that began with New Orleans, Cooks would likely be a coveted player after another big year, and the Patriots may not have been willing to pay a high price to keep him and may be looking to get maximum value now.Watkins was in the same contractual situation when the Rams acquired him from Buffalo during training camp last year, and he parlayed a solid season in Los Angeles into an enormous contract elsewhere. Yet the Rams don't appear to regret the trade, even though Watkins was their fourth-leading receiver with 39 catches, because he excelled in the red zone with eight TD grabs and provided a deep threat that had to be respected by opponents.Cooks will be asked to do all that and more with the Rams, who haven't let up on their intense offseason pursuit of a championship roster.The Rams acquired elite cornerbacks Marcus Peters and Aqib Talib last month, and they signed defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh last week to form a ferocious duo with AP Defensive Player of the Year Aaron Donald. Los Angeles has lost leading tackler Alec Ogletree and top cornerback Trumaine Johnson during its machinations, yet kept its entire offensive line intact for Goff and running back Todd Gurley.With the draft picks acquired in Tuesday's deal, New England now holds four picks in the first two rounds later this month and four more picks in Rounds 3-7. That gives coach Bill Belichick the ability to go shopping for a young prospect or perhaps to make a deal for a veteran.Still, there's also the possibility that the Patriots may do nothing at all at receiver heading into training camp.Julian Edelman is expected to return after suffering a preseason knee injury, and Malcolm Mitchell is also slated to return after spending time on injured reserve with a knee issue.Cooks was New Orleans' first-round selection out of Oregon State in 2014, and he played three solid seasons for the Saints while emerging as a top young receiver.Yet when the competitive receiver apparently disagreed with the Saints about the height of his abilities and his long-term future, he was traded to New England 13 months ago for a first-rounder and other picks.Although Cooks is one year away from free agency, the Rams probably feel they've got a better chance to do a long-term deal with Cooks. Cooks and Goff are represented by the same agent, and Cooks is a Stockton, California, native whose family will be able to see him play regularly.___AP Sports Writer Greg Beacham in Los Angeles contributed to this story.___
SARAJEVO   Bosnia\'s top court has scrapped court fines issued to rape victims and other survivors of the Bosnian 1990s war after they had reparation claims rejected, in a decision praised by rights lawyers and a victims association on Tuesday.Thousands of war survivors including victims of sexual violence, mainly Muslim Bosniaks, have been hit by hefty fines after their claims were rejected by courts in the autonomous Serb region of post-war Bosnia.Most of those fined are jobless, in poor health since the war, and unable to pay the fees. Those who cannot face seizure of their property or part of their monthly income, if they have any.The Constitutional Court last month endorsed an appeal by a rape victim against rulings by two courts in the Serb Republic ordering her to pay 3,000 Bosnian marka ($1,890) plus interest in court fees, saying the rulings violated her right to a fair trial and her property rights.The court said the rulings obliging a victim of war rape to pay fees for public attorneys over her reparation claim represented a "disproportional and unreasonable burden" for her."This is a very important step both for the appellant, a victim of sexual violence in war to whom the ruling is relating directly, but also for all other victims of war crimes who are in a similar situation," Adrijana Hanui Beirovi, a senior lawyer with the NGO Trial International which provided legal assistance to the victim, said on Tuesday.Trial International is helping some of the thousands of such women who registered and underwent medical check-ups during and after the war, and who are still traumatized by their experience more than 25 years later.Bosnia\'s war prisoner association, which has helped some 30,000 of its members file reparation lawsuits, most of which were dismissed in courts in the Serb region due to the statute of limitations for torture offences, hailed the court\'s ruling as "historic"."This (ruling) is very significant for all former camp detainees/torture victims who have filed reparation lawsuits and which are still under way, because it is applicable for all identical cases and should represent a turning point for Bosnia-Herzegovina institutions towards the war torture victims," the association said in a statement.In 2014, the Constitutional Court said it would recognize the statute of limitations for torture offences, upholding a Serb Republic statute that required victims to file lawsuits within five years of the alleged crime to be eligible for reparations.Bosnia\'s two autonomous regions, the Serb Republic and the Bosniak-Croat Federation, each have their own courts which treat reparation claims differently.The Serb Republic courts recognize statutes of limitations for torture offences, while courts in the Bosniak-Croat Federation do not. There is no political will to adopt a nationwide law on the victims of torture, however.More than 100,000 people died in the 1992-95 conflict between Orthodox Serbs, Muslim Bosniaks and Catholic Croats.Two million were driven from their homes, about 200,000 people were detained in camps where beatings and torture were common, and around 20,000 are estimated to be victims of sexual violence, according to data from war crimes courts and associations of victims.(Reporting by Daria Sito-Sucic; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
CANBERRA, Australia   Jon O\'Neill flew 23 hours from Florida to the mountainous jungles of Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific in search of clues to the life of his war hero father, whom he can barely remember.At times, it has been a painful journey of discovery among the rusted relics entangled in undergrowth of a conflict that ended 75 years ago for his father, U.S. Army Air Forces ace John G. "Jump" O\'Neill.But it has also been an experience planned over a decade that has rewarded the 57-year-old editor and recreational pilot from De Land, Florida, beyond his expectations."I go ... back home with more memories than I ever thought I would be able to take with me. It\'s been amazing," O\'Neill told The Associated Press from Rabaul, the former Japanese stronghold on the Papua New Guinea island of New Britain, over which his father had four of his eight Japanese kills in a P-38 Lighting fighter.The image of his father had been etched in O\'Neill\'s mind more by family stories than by memory. John O\'Neill died of leukemia in Florida when his only son was 6 and his daughter, Tracey, was a year younger.With the guidance of World War II historian Justin Taylan, founder of the charity website PacificWrecks.com, which documents and preserves war sites and graves, the son has retraced his father\'s 1943 wartime steps, from Papua New Guinea\'s capital, Port Moresby, to the wilds of the country\'s north and east coasts.Japan took Rabaul in 1942 and held it until the war ended in 1945. But Rabaul had been rendered useless as a base for Japanese fighting in the South Pacific by relentless air attacks and isolation from supply lines.O\'Neill\'s two weeks in Papua New Guinea, Australia\'s nearest neighbor, end on Wednesday.On March 28  his late father\'s 97th birthday  O\'Neill was at Oro Bay, a former U.S. military staging post on the northeast coast, where his father shot down a Mitsubishi Zero, his second Japanese kill, on the day he turned 22.A poignant moment came when visiting the town of Dobodura on the east coast, where an array of 15 airstrips for bombers and fighter planes became the U.S. front line of the Pacific War. From there, John O\'Neill launched into intense air battles over Rabaul with his friend Capt. Richard Bong, the United States\' highest-scoring ace, who won a Medal of Honor for 40 confirmed kills. Bong survived 146 combat missions, only to be killed in California while test-flying a jet fighter prototype shortly before the war ended in 1945."When I got to Dobodura and I saw the runway where he flew from, I just got really, overwhelmingly depressed that I just couldn\'t look at him and say, \'What was this like for you when you were 21 or 22?\'" O\'Neill said."I got to see the campsite where he actually lived while he was in Oro Province, and that to me was one of the most amazing experiences, just to know that he was there," he said.O\'Neill was promoted to captain before returning to the United States with Bong in late 1943 as combat heroes to sell war bonds.Within weeks, O\'Neill\'s P-38, nicknamed Beautiful Lass, and its new pilot, Ormond Powell, disappeared somewhere in the New Britain jungles or the Bismarck Sea.Taylan, who has been to Papua New Guinea dozens of times since his first visit in 1993 with his veteran grandfather, Carl R. Thien, a U.S. Army combat photographer in the Pacific, believes Beautiful Lass will someday be found.The key is to reach out to villagers who have known for generations where in the jungle the wreckage lies."We believe the plane can be found," Taylan said. "I can\'t promise to him (Jon O\'Neill) how long or how difficult that would be. But knowing him and seeing his experience of this trip makes me really want to find his father\'s aircraft.""There are hundreds of missing in action aircraft from just the United States in this country and probably dozens from Australia. Many may never be found. Others will be found beyond my lifetime," he said.Jon O\'Neill said Oro Province, where his father spent most of 1943, was much the same as it was during the war years.The American military presence during World War II is still evident to those who look beneath the jungle canopy.O\'Neill hacked through the jungle with a machete for an hour to reach the wreck of a P-38. He saw a B-24 Liberator bomber, a Jeep and a canteen marked "U.S. Army 1942." Near Japan\'s Tobera Airfield on New Britain, he saw the wrecks of Mitsubishi Zeros that his father might have fought.O\'Neill cherishes the idea that Beautiful Lass might one day be found."It was last seen over New Britain somewhere," he said. "It disappeared into a cloud and never came out, and I\'m hoping that one of these days Justin will find it and I\'ll be able to come back and actually see my father\'s plane.""Who knows? You fly over New Britain and there\'s just jungle. It could be down there anywhere," he said.
MANILA   The Philippine Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered police to hand over full records of thousands of deadly encounters in the country\'s war on drugs, thwarting a government bid to keep operational details of the bloody crackdown secret.The high court gave the solicitor-general, Jose Calida, 15 days to comply with a December order that he had challenged on the grounds of national security.Human rights and legal groups lauded the decision as a triumph that would help bring to book state officials involved in what they say are systematic abuses, cover-ups and executions during President Rodrigo Duterte\'s bloody 21-month campaign."The Supreme Court has demonstrated with this initial order that it will perform its role as our people\'s beacon and bastion of justice," said the Center for International Law, a group of domestic human rights lawyers who were among the petitioners who had asked for the incident records to be disclosed.Solicitor-general Calida did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Police spokesman John Bulalacao said he would not respond until he had received a copy of the court order.The move comes just a few months after the International Criminal Court (ICC) announced it had started a preliminary examination of a complaint filed by a Philippine lawyer accusing Duterte and top officials of crimes against humanity.Duterte has since withdrawn the Philippines\' membership of the court in protest, even though it has no impact on the ICC\'s jurisdiction, which applies for the period in which a country was a member.About 4,100 people have been killed by police and several thousand more by unknown gunmen whom the authorities have described as vigilantes, or rival gang members.Police deny allegations they have murdered people involved in drugs and say those killed were all dealers who violently resisted arrest.Supreme Court acting Chief Justice Antonio Carpio told Calida to submit names, addresses and gender of those killed in police operations, and other drug-related deaths.Carpio demanded details of each deadly anti-drug operation, the police and witnesses involved and copies of warrants against suspects who were killed.The order covers drug-related deaths from July 2016 until November 2017, when two complainants, including a group of Manila slum dwellers, petitioned the court to make the details publicly available.Human rights lawyer Edre Olalia said the government must comply with the court order and follow the law."It\'s about time the government should take responsibility and, if so proven, liability for playing God in the snuffing of lives," he said.(Reporting by Manuel Mogato; Editing by Martin Petty)

SAN DIEGO  At a moment of extraordinary tension between California and President Trump, this state is moving to elect a governor in a changing of the guard that will test its outsize power as a national leader for Democrats in its fight against the White House.Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat retiring after nearly half a century in public life, has been at the forefront of the fight, particularly on climate change. No one in the crowded field of candidates seeking to replace him enjoys Mr. Browns level of national prominence; it remains to be seen if any has the political skills Mr. Brown has honed over his long career to take on this kind of complicated battle.The contest is taking place against a backdrop of escalating hostilities, signaling what will most likely be years of legal and political fights between the Trump White House and California. On Monday alone, the administration moved to roll back Californias landmark auto emissions reduction program and challenged a state law intended to curb the sale of federal lands.As has become increasingly clear in recent days, Mr. Browns successor will face a thicket of high-stakes challenges. The federal government is suing to overturn so-called sanctuary laws in California intended to hamper federal immigration officials. It has moved to permit offshore drilling in states including California.The tax overhaul law passed by Congress at Mr. Trumps urging is viewed here as a major assault on middle-class homeowners, because of its steep limits on the deductibility of mortgage payments and state and local taxes. Mr. Trump made his first trip as president to California last month to visit prototypes of a wall being built on the border with Mexico  and used the visit to attack the state as out of control. Over the weekend, he assailed Mr. Brown on Twitter for pardoning five immigrants who would otherwise have faced deportation.For his part, Mr. Brown said Washington was basically going to war against the state of California.Polls suggest that the two leading contenders to succeed Mr. Brown are Gavin Newsom, the lieutenant governor and a former mayor of San Francisco, and Antonio R. Villaraigosa, the former two-term mayor of Los Angeles and Assembly speaker, both Democrats. The two are known as effective public speakers with extensive political experience that could prove important in navigating the fight against Washington.Of the two, Mr. Newsom has assumed the more aggressive stance in taking on the Trump administration, drawing strong support from liberal Democrats in the process. He has also called for the impeachment of Mr. Trump. A centerpiece of his campaign is a pledge to adopt a government-run, single-payer health care system, a direct challenge to the free-market vision embraced by Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans.This is more than a political campaign, Mr. Newsom told cheering delegates at the state Democratic convention here this year. Its about Democrats acting like Democrats in a battle for Americas soul against a president without one.Some of the defeatist Democrats are saying we just want to defend against the status quo, he told another audience that day. How can you just defend against the status quo? We need to do more than just push back against their agenda to wreak more havoc.Mr. Villaraigosa has struck a more restrained note, saying it was too early to talk about impeachment and dismissing Mr. Newsoms promise to have California go it alone with its own health care system as a pie in the sky promise he was making to ride anti-Trump sentiment. In tone, Mr. Villaraigosa is closer to Mr. Brown in positioning himself against the president.Gavin likes to talk about the resistance  I dont use that word, Mr. Villaraigosa said over green tea during a break from campaigning in downtown Los Angeles. I tell people the best way to resist is not to text and tweet, scream and yell at Donald Trump. The best way to resist is for us to chart a different path here in this state.We are going to push back, he said. But most of our attention, most of our efforts need to be focused on improving the human condition here.Robert Shrum, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California, said the divisions on health care and impeachment reflected discussions Democrats were having nationally as they debated the best way to defeat Mr. Trump. Mr. Villaraigosas stance reflects the calculation that while California is overwhelmingly Democratic in its voting habits, many voters are independent by registration, and thus might be less receptive to an overly confrontational position against Mr. Trump.Newsom is endorsing all of those things on the Democratic wish list, Mr. Shrum said. Villaraigosa is saying, I like those things, but we actually cant do them.One position speaks to the anger in the base, he said. The other speaks to what I think Democratic leadership in Congress prefers.Under Californias election system, 27 candidates will appear on a primary ballot on June 5, regardless of party. A runoff in November will be held between the top two finishers.While polls suggest the November contest will be between Mr. Villaraigosa and Mr. Newsom, the dynamics of a multicandidate field can make it difficult to predict who might finish in the top. John Chiang, a Democrat and the state treasurer, and John H. Cox, a Republican businessman, also appear to be in position to capture a spot on the November ballot, according to some polls.And Delaine Eastin, a Democrat and the former state superintendent of public education, has drawn vocal support from the left with her own call for single-payer health care and the impeachment of Mr. Trump.If the November election ends up being between Mr. Villaraigosa and Mr. Newsom, it will be a classic north-versus-south contest. Candidates from Northern California tend to win those, because of heavier turnout in the Bay Area; Mr. Newsom enjoys a big advantage in fund-raising and leads in most statewide polls.But Mr. Villaraigosa would be the first Latino governor elected in modern times. He is running when the ever-growing Latino community accounts for nearly 40 percent of the population and when California is battling with the administration over restrictive immigration policies.Mr. Newsom, 50, has made a single-payer government-run health care system for California a central plank of his campaign as he has sought to ride the anti-Trump sentiment that is surging in Democratic circles here, including within the powerful nurses union. It is a litmus test for our endorsement, said Bonnie Castillo, the executive director of the California Nurses Association. Gavin passes it with flying colors.Mr. Trumps efforts to undermine the Affordable Care Act, and his pledge to continue doing so, mean that health care will most likely be another challenge for the next governor, whether or not California carries out single-payer.If our health care system is thrown into absolute chaos because of what happens in Washington, the voters in California are going to expect the Democrats who control California to deal with it, said Garry South, a longtime Democratic consultant who advises the nurses union.If Mr. Newsom won and made good on that campaign promise, he would open a up a whole new area of contention with Mr. Trump. Single-payer health care is likely to require waivers from the Trump administration in order to apply Medicare payments to financing a potentially $400 billion program, along with substantial tax increases.Mr. Villaraigosa, 65, said he supported the concept of single-payer health care, but dismissed Mr. Newsoms promise as unrealistic.Hes arguing with bold leadership were going to do it  even though he knows you need Trumps waivers to do it, Mr. Villaraigosa said. They are not going to give us the waivers for that. Think about this: You ready to double your taxes? Nobody is going to do that. Everyone is for it until they realize  whoa. The cost. Mr. Chiang said he, too, supported a state health care system. I just think Gavin Newsom should be forthcoming on how they are going to pay for it, he said.Mr. Newsom dismissed his critics as defeatist Democrats.Its a jaw-dropping thing: to say you support something but it cant be done, Mr. Newsom said in an interview a few blocks from his office in Sacramento. Who the hell is interested in it cant be done? We wouldnt have marriage equality if I had listened to it cant be done.Asked what his plan was to pay for it, Mr. Newsom responded: The one that works is the one I support. Im not an ideologue.Still, the biggest question may well be whether anyone will be able to replace Mr. Brown as Californias counterpoint to Mr. Trump  and whether the states stature as a national leader in this fight will diminish when Mr. Brown retires to his ranch next January.California is usually the leading edge, said Ms. Eastin, one of the Democrats seeking to replace him. Its the sixth-largest economy in the world. I think California will get attention.

WASHINGTON   China on Tuesday condemned the U.S. announcement of tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese imports and said it would "take corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products.""The Chinese side strongly condemns and firmly opposes the unfounded Section 301 investigation and the proposed list of products and tariff increases based on the investigation," a Chinese embassy statement said."As the Chinese saying goes, it is only polite to reciprocate. The Chinese side will resort to the WTO dispute settlement mechanism and take corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products in accordance with Chinese law."(Reporting by David Brunnstrom and David Chance; Editing by James Dalgleish)
KUNDUZ, Afghanistan  A day after Afghan security forces killed or wounded more than 100 people in the bombing of a religious seminary where they said senior Taliban figures had gathered, officials on Tuesday admitted that civilians had been among the casualties.For much of Monday, even as the bodies of wounded and dead civilians  including children  arrived at local hospitals, the Afghan government maintained that its airstrike in northern Kunduz Province had killed only Taliban leaders in a nonresidential area. Late Tuesday, the office of President Ashraf Ghani acknowledged the harm to civilians and said the bombing would be investigated.The United Nations mission in Afghanistan said it was actively looking into disturbing reports of serious harm to civilians, and the Kunduz governors office said, In these airstrikes, in addition to armed opposition, unfortunately some of our civilian countrymen have also been killed and wounded.The exact number of casualties resulting from the airstrikes, which occurred in the Dasht-e-Archi district, remained unclear. Afghan officials put the total at 57 to 70 dead. Some local officials believe the number to be higher.Officials would not publicly say how many of those were civilians, but one senior security official said that about 35 percent of the dead were civilians  mostly children who were students at the seminary.In Kabul, Gen. Mohammad Radmanish, the Defense Ministry spokesman, showed the news media surveillance footage of armed men at the site of the attack in the lead-up to the bombing, as well as grainy pictures of Taliban leaders whom he said were boarding vehicles to attend a meeting at the site. In impassioned remarks, he listed the names of more than a dozen senior Taliban commanders who he said had been meeting to plan bloodshed and atrocities.Our MD-530 helicopters attacked them, but the wounded brought to the hospitals were hit by bullets and small-arms fire, Gen. Radmanish said on Tuesday, suggesting that the Taliban had opened fire on civilians, despite his assertion the previous day that no civilians had been in the area of the attack.Health officials in Kunduz disputed his claims.We have received 57 wounded so far, their ages ranging from 7 to 60, said Naeem Mangal, the director of the 200-bed regional hospital in Kunduz, who added that the wounds were mostly from explosives or bombs.Abdul Matin Atefi, the provincial health director of Kunduz, said 26 bodies had arrived in hospitals and clinics. We dont know how many of those are civilians or Taliban, but the Taliban usually do not allow their dead or wounded to be registered in clinics, he said.A senior security official, who was not authorized to speak to the news media, said that a graduation ceremony had been taking place at the seminary, and that senior Taliban leaders had gathered in a side room. Because of the recent increase in airstrikes, the groups leaders often choose meeting places that they think will not be bombed by Afghan and coalition forces.The security forces initial strikes targeted the side room rather than the main space where hundreds were gathered for the graduation, the official said. The civilian casualties resulted when the strikes continued after civilians and Taliban began running, he said.As the Afghan forces air capabilities have increased in the past couple of years, so have concerns over disregard for civilians in harms way, especially as the Taliban often fight from villages and densely populated areas. Much criticism has been directed at Mr. Ghani, who, in trying to bolster his struggling military in the face of a brutal enemy, has often remained quiet on civilian casualties.The Afghan governments efforts to track civilian casualties is far behind what is needed as aerial operations increase, said Patricia Gossman, the Afghanistan senior researcher for Human Rights Watch. The failure to investigate, and to follow through to see what goes wrong, means they cant ensure it wont happen again.At the moment, she said, the pressure to kill Taliban seems to mean they are not simply taking the precautions they should.Mawlai Sattar, 36, said he had been at the graduation ceremony along with his 7-year-old son who was helping out on the day.When the bombing started, I fled, said Mr. Sattar, who had become separated from his son at the event. At home, the women told me that the boy hadnt returned, so I started running back barefoot, and I saw that half of his jaw was missing and he was lying there with the other martyrs.If they had killed Taliban, my heart would not be at this much pain, he said, estimating that around 20 Taliban had been present.But they killed children, Mr. Sattar said. I personally attended 16 funerals today.
BEIJING   China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China\'s ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.Cui Tiankai made the comments ahead of what is expected to be the announcement this week of U.S. tariffs on $50 billion to $60 billion in Chinese imports following an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."If they do, we will certainly take countermeasures of the same proportion, and the same scale, same intensity," Cui said in an interview posted on the website of China Global Television Network (CGTN) and broadcast on state television on Tuesday.The U.S. tariffs are expected to target products benefiting from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" industrial development programme, although it may be more than two months before the import curbs take effect, U.S. officials have said.China on Sunday announced tariffs on $3 billion in imports of U.S. food and other goods in response to U.S. tariffs on imports of aluminium and steel, a skirmish that investors fear is a prelude to a broader trade war."China does not provoke a trade war, and doesn\'t want to fight a trade war, but we also aren\'t afraid of a trade war," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a regular news briefing.The Section 301 investigation initiated by U.S. President Donald Trump is focused on accusations of theft of intellectual property and forced technology transfer by China, charges Beijing denies.Cui said China has been bolstering its protection of intellectual property rights."China has been strengthening its efforts and strengthening our legal system on this particular issue, and we are making good progress," he said.(Reporting by Lusha Zhang, Tony Munroe and Michael Martina; Editing by Nick Macfie)
BEIJING   China will take counter-measures of the "same proportion" and scale if the United States imposes further tariffs on Chinese goods, China\'s ambassador to Washington said, amid growing fears of an impending trade war.Cui Tiankai made the comments ahead of what is expected to be the announcement this week of U.S. tariffs on $50 billion to $60 billion in Chinese imports following an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."If they do, we will certainly take countermeasures of the same proportion, and the same scale, same intensity," Cui said in an interview posted on the website of China Global Television Network (CGTN) and broadcast on state television on Tuesday.The U.S. tariffs are expected to target products benefiting from Beijing\'s "Made in China 2025" industrial development program, although it may be more than two months before the import curbs take effect, U.S. officials have said.China on Sunday announced tariffs on $3 billion in imports of U.S. food and other goods in response to U.S. tariffs on imports of aluminum and steel, a skirmish that investors fear is a prelude to a broader trade war."China does not provoke a trade war, and doesn\'t want to fight a trade war, but we also aren\'t afraid of a trade war," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a regular news briefing.The Section 301 investigation initiated by U.S. President Donald Trump is focused on accusations of theft of intellectual property and forced technology transfer by China, charges Beijing denies.Cui said China has been bolstering its protection of intellectual property rights."China has been strengthening its efforts and strengthening our legal system on this particular issue, and we are making good progress," he said.(Reporting by Lusha Zhang, Tony Munroe and Michael Martina; Editing by Nick Macfie)
BEIJING   China imposed tariffs on 128 U.S. products ranging from wine to oranges in order to "balance the losses" caused by U.S. duties and to protect China\'s national interests, according to a commentary on the front page of the official People\'s Daily.Beijing on Monday slapped additional tariffs of up to 25 percent on about $3 billion worth of U.S. products in response to new U.S. duties on aluminum and steel imports.U.S. producers, Canada and South Korea have been granted exemptions from the aluminum and steel duties, but not China, a relatively small supplier to the United States.The Chinese tariffs are widely regarded as modest in size. They are seen as a warning shot to the U.S. administration, which will this week unveil a list of Chinese high-tech imports targeted for U.S. duties.U.S. industry has expressed concerns that China could further retaliate with punitive levies on major products such as aircraft, soybeans and autos."China does not like trade wars, but being on the side of justice, China has no choice but to enter a war to end a war," Wang Hailou, a researcher at the Chinese commerce ministry\'s research center, wrote in the commentary.Beijing has repeatedly said it does not fear a trade war with the United States, but it has also urged Washington to come to the table and resolve their trade differences."It would be beneficial for all if (China\'s) friendly overtures were accepted by Washington. However, at the moment it seems intent on turning a deaf ear to any suggestion that they each make concessions to reach an amicable agreement," according to an editorial in China Daily.(Reporting by Ryan Woo; Editing by Michael Perry)
BEIJING   China\'s commerce ministry said on Wednesday it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed U.S. tariffs following the Section 301 probe and will take counter measures, according to the official Xinhua news agency.The response follows a move by the Trump administration on Tuesday to slap 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing\'s intellectual property practices.The Ministry of Commerce (MofCom) said it "will soon take measure of equal intensity and scale against U.S. goods.""We have the confidence and ability to respond to any protectionist measures by the United States," said MofCom.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s (USTR) office target list is broad and includes products from military shotguns to sewing machines.The USTR list follows China\'s imposition of tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. fruit, nuts and pork to protest new U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs imposed last month by U.S. President Donald Trump."The findings of the US Section 301 investigation are a willful distortion of facts and full of selective assertions and allegations," said Zhang Xiangchen, Beijing\'s ambassador to the World Trade Organization.The investigation was made on Chinese imports under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."What Washington truly wishes is not a trade war, but to intimidate China by wielding the baton," said an editorial in the Global Times paper."The latest U.S. measures against China carry a sense of containment, which purportedly is commonplace among U.S. politicians," it added.The widely-read state run Global Times is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s official People\'s Daily, although its stance does not necessarily equate with Chinese government policy.(Reporting by Cheng Fang, Ryan Woo, Ben Blanchard and Tony Munroe in Beijing and Engen Tham in Shanghai; Writing by Engen Tham; Editing by Sam Holmes)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration on Tuesday escalated its aggressive actions on trade by proposing 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing\'s policies that require foreign companies to hand over their technology.China immediately said it would retaliate against the new tariffs, which target high-tech industries that Beijing has been nurturing, from advanced manufacturing and aerospace to information technology and robotics.The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative issued a list targeting 1,300 Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecommunications equipment. The suggested tariffs wouldn\'t take effect right away: A public comment period will last until May 11, and a hearing on the tariffs is set for May 15. Companies and consumers will have the opportunity to lobby to have some products taken off the list or have others added.The latest U.S. move risks heightening trade tensions with China, which on Monday had slapped taxes on $3 billion in U.S. products in response to earlier U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports."China\'s going to be compelled to lash back," warned Philip Levy, a senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs and an economic adviser to President George W. Bush.Early Wednesday in Beijing, China\'s Commerce Ministry said it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed U.S. tariffs and warned of retaliatory action."We will prepare equal measures for U.S. products with the same scale" according to regulations in Chinese trade law, a ministry spokesman said in comments carried by the official Xinhua News Agency.The U.S. sanctions are intended to punish China for deploying strong-arm tactics in its drive to become a global technology power. These include pressuring American companies to share technology to gain access to the Chinese market, forcing U.S. firms to license their technology in China on unfavorable terms and even hacking into U.S. companies\' computers to steal trade secrets.The administration sought to draw up the list of targeted Chinese goods in a way that might limit the impact of the tariffs  a tax on imports  on American consumers while hitting Chinese imports that benefit from Beijing\'s sharp-elbowed tech policies. But some critics warned that Americans will end up being hurt."If you\'re hitting $50 billion in trade, you\'re inevitably going to hurt somebody, and somebody is going to complain," said Rod Hunter, a former economic official at the National Security Council and now a partner at Baker & McKenzie LLP.Kathy Bostjancic of Oxford Economics predicted that the tariffs "would have just a marginal impact on the U.S. economy"  unless they spark "a tit-for-tat retaliation that results in a broad-based global trade war."Representatives of American business, which have complained for years that China has pilfered U.S. technology and discriminated against U.S. companies, were nevertheless critical of the administration\'s latest action."Unilateral tariffs may do more harm than good and do little to address the problems in China\'s (intellectual property) and tech transfer policies," said John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council.Even some technology groups that are contending directly with Chinese competition expressed misgivings."The Trump administration is right to push back against China\'s abuse of economic and trade policy," said Robert Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation think tank.However, he said the proposed U.S. tariffs "would hurt companies in the U.S. by raising the prices and reducing consumption of the capital equipment they rely on to produce their goods and services.""The focus should be on things that will create the most leverage over China without raising prices and dampening investment in the kinds of machinery, equipment, and other technology that drives innovation and productivity across the economy," Atkinson added.The United States has become increasingly frustrated with China\'s aggressive efforts to overtake American technological supremacy. And many have argued that Washington needed to respond aggressively."The Chinese are bad trading partners because they steal intellectual property," said Derek Scissors, a China specialist at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.In January, a federal court in Wisconsin convicted a Chinese manufacturer of wind turbines, Sinovel Wind Group, of stealing trade secrets from the American company AMSC and nearly putting it out of business.And in 2014, a Pennsylvania grand jury indicted five officers in the Chinese People\'s Liberation Army on charges of hacking into the computers of Westinghouse, US Steel and other major American companies to steal information that would benefit their Chinese competitors.To target China, Trump dusted off a Cold War weapon for trade disputes: Section 301 of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974, which lets the president unilaterally impose tariffs. It was meant for a world in which much of global commerce wasn\'t covered by trade agreements. With the arrival in 1995 of the Geneva-based World Trade Organization, Section 301 largely faded from use.Dean Pinkert of the law firm Hughes Hubbard & Reed, found it reassuring that the administration didn\'t completely bypass the WTO: As part of its complaint, the U.S. is bringing a WTO case against Chinese licensing policies that put U.S. companies at a disadvantage.China has been urging the United States to seek a negotiated solution and warning that it would retaliate against any trade sanctions. Beijing could counterpunch by targeting American businesses that depend on the Chinese market: Aircraft manufacturer Boeing, for instance, or American soybean farmers, who send nearly 60 percent of their exports to China.Rural America has been especially worried about the risk of a trade war. Farmers are especially vulnerable targets in trade spats because they rely so much on foreign sales."Beijing right now is trying to motivate US stakeholders to press the Trump Administration to enter into direct negotiations with China and reach a settlement before tariffs are imposed," the Eurasia Group consultancy said in a research note."The next couple of weeks will be very interesting," says Kristin Duncanson, a soybean, corn and hog farmer in Mapleton, Minnesota.____AP writer Gillian Wong in Beijing contributed to this report.____
OTTAWA   The United States, Canada and Mexico could soon announce a deal in principle to update NAFTA that would likely tackle the key issue of autos content while leaving other contentious chapters to be dealt with later, three sources familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.After more than eight months of slow-moving talks to update the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Washington is keen to settle the process quickly, citing the need to finish before Mexico\'s July 1 presidential election.The ministers in charge of the talks are due to meet in Washington this week. If all goes well, the leaders of the three nations could make an announcement about progress on an updated NAFTA at a regional summit in Peru next week, Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said on Monday.Other sources agreed with that assessment on Tuesday, emphasizing that negotiators were focusing on the so called "rules of origin" issue which relates mostly to the auto sector."What they\'re looking to do is \'Let\'s hammer out as much as we can, with the specific focus on automotive, and if we can declare an agreement in principle in Lima that\'s a good moment for everybody\'," said one of the sources.Guajardo said the three nations had made significant advances, adding that the Washington meeting of ministers would determine the scope to agree on the basics of an agreement.The challenge is that a deal in principle might well be so vague on areas of disagreement that negotiators would be faced with many more months of very challenging work with no guarantee of success at the end.The sources, who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation, said the three nations had made progress on a U.S. demand that the North American content of vehicles made in NAFTA nations increase to 85 percent from 62.5 percent.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said last week he was "optimistic that we can get something done in principle in the next little bit".But Canada\'s chief negotiator, speaking the same day, said "significant gaps" remained on many issues, citing the U.S. positions on dispute settlement, government procurement and a sunset clause that would allow one country to quit NAFTA after five years.The sources said the U.S. administration -- gearing up for a possible trade war with China -- did not want to be distracted by NAFTA at the same time."If they don\'t do the dispute resolution ... or agriculture, I don\'t think it precludes them declaring victory in the parts they have (in hand)," said the first source.The sources spoke as U.S. President Donald Trump threatened yet again to walk away from the deal, saying Mexico needed to crack down on migrants crossing the border.A Canadian source familiar with government thinking said it was hard to predict what the meeting in Washington this week could achieve."These are complex and technical negotiations that encompass a huge number of issues. I think we all agreed to be a little bit realistic ... the important thing is that there is momentum towards meeting," said the source.Mexican chief negotiator Kenneth Smith tweeted on Tuesday that "it will be the substance of the negotiation that drives any potential conclusion".(With additional reporting by Steve Holland in Washington; Editing by Christian Plumb)
LONDON   Britain\'s top share index declined with other European bourses at the start of the second quarter, but a few stocks such as Sky managed to rise through the session.Shares in Sky closed up 2.1 percent after Twenty-First Century Fox said it could legally separate Sky News within the group to allay British regulatory concerns about the channel\'s independence under Rupert Murdoch\'s ownership.Fox agreed in December 2016 to buy the 61 percent of Sky it did not already own, but the deal has been repeatedly delayed by the British government and regulators.The blue chip FTSE 100 index ended the day down 0.37 percent at 7,030.46 points, while mid caps fell 0.32 percent, as trading resumed following the Easter market holiday.Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said that though the UK market was unloved, a number of factors such as the prospect of higher interest rates spelling the imminent end of the era of cheap money were supportive of M&A activity."In the background there is what is happening in terms of the global economy. This year looks to be OK, but if this kind of trade war stuff does escalate, that could put a dampener on things," Khalaf added.Worries over global trade and a tumble in U.S. heavyweight tech stocks have hit risk assets such as equities so far this year, while a spate of profit warnings and Brexit-related uncertainties have dented appetite for British stocks.The FTSE 100 slid in line with the broader European market, with financials, industrials and health stocks shaving the most points off the index.A rise in the pound also put pressure on large, overseas-earning stocks.Mining stocks were a bright spot as solid manufacturing data from China, the world\'s biggest consumer of metals, boosted the price of copper to a one-week high. [MET/L]Shares in Glencore, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto all rose between 0.3 and 0.7 percent.The FTSE\'s muted start to the second quarter follows its worst first quarter since 2011, while March saw its third straight month of declines.(Reporting by Kit Rees, additional reporting by Julien Ponthus; Editing by Catherine Evans)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he will make a decision about pulling troops out of war-battered Syria very soon, expressing remorse about the U.S. role in violent conflicts going back to the country\'s invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq nearly two decades ago."Our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS. We\'ve almost completed that task and we\'ll be making a decision very quickly, in coordination with others, as to what we\'ll do," Trump said during a press conference alongside the heads of three Baltic states, using a common acronym for the extremist Islamic State group. "I want to get out. I want to bring our troops home."The special U.S. envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, Brett McGurk, offered a slightly different assessment at Washington forum earlier on Tuesday, saying : "We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn\'t over and we are going to complete that mission."As of three months ago, the United States had spent $7 trillion on the Middle East over the past 17 years, Trump told the press conference. The Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon spurred the country to try to defeat violent and threatening groups in the Middle East and Asia."We get nothing, nothing out of it," Trump said. "Think of it - $7 trillion over a 17-year period. We have nothing - nothing except death and destruction. It\'s a horrible thing. So it\'s time."(Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Editing by James Dalgleish)
(Reuters) - Sales of light vehicles in Canada dipped 0.6 percent in March according to data released on Tuesday, amid signs that the economy was on track for a weaker-than-expected first quarter.Research firm DesRosiers Automotive Consultants Inc said sales of passenger cars fell 12.4 percent in the month with Ford Canada and Fiat Chrysler recording a drop in overall sales.In contrast, sales of light trucks rose 5.2 percent to 132,515.Auto sales typically track macro indicators such as employment and economic growth. Canada\'s economy unexpectedly shrank 0.1 percent in January in a clear sign that first-quarter growth would be weaker than Bank of Canada\'s 2.5 percent growth forecast."We effectively had the start of a global trade war in March, which saw the stock market fall off precipitously, which perhaps rattled consumers a bit last month, along with some flagging economic growth projections," David Adams, president of Global Automakers of Canada wrote in a note.The Toronto Stock Exchange closed 0.5 percent lower in March, while the U.S. benchmark S&P 500 index lost about 2.7 percent during that period.Fiat Chrysler said total sales in Canada slumped 8 percent to 24,490 vehicles in March, hurt by steep declines in demand for Chrysler and Dodge brands from a year earlier. (https://bit.ly/2GQNjVG)A bulk of the company\'s vehicle business came from a 44 percent jump in the number of Jeep SUVs and crossovers sold.Ford Canada\'s sales dipped 1.6 percent to 26,066 vehicles following lower demand for trucks during the month.Total sales in Canada for rival General Motors Co rose 0.1 percent to 30,159 vehicles from a year ago, helped by a 1.3 percent rise in Chevrolet sales.In the United States, all three automakers posted higher sales of new vehicles helped by a strengthening economy. GM posted a 16 percent jump in new vehicle sales while Fiat\'s sales rose 14 percent.(Reporting by Ahmed Farhatha and Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Shounak Dasgupta)
BEIJING   Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday told President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zimbabwe that they should work towards a new chapter in ties, during the African leader\'s first state visit to China since he seized power last year.Mnangagwa, who was sworn in as president in November after a de facto military coup ended Robert Mugabe\'s 37-year rule, has vowed to rebuild his countrys ravaged economy and re-engage with the international community.China had considered Mugabe a "good friend" in a relationship dating back to its support for Zimbabwe\'s independence war, but pointedly failed to support him when he was ousted.I\'m willing to work with Mr President to jointly map out our future cooperation and write a new chapter in China-Zimbabwe relations for the benefit of our two peoples," Xi said, during a meeting in Beijing.China has growing interest in investing in Africa\'s natural resources and has poured more than $100 billion into roads, railways, mines, powerlines and factories on the continent over the last decade.Trade between China and African countries reached $85.3 billion in the first half of 2017, according to Chinese state media.Xi said China has been happy to see the economic reform policies that Mnangagwa put in place after the "peaceful, smooth" transfer of power.Mnangagwa said that Zimbabweappreciated China\'s political support and goodwill and thanked Xi for sending an envoy immediately upon his inauguration."That was a great honor," he said.China continued to invest in large infrastructure projects in Zimbabwe throughout Mugabe\'s rule as his government, sanctioned by Western nations for human rights abuses, increasingly turned to Beijing for help.With his visit, Zimbabwe would attempt to tap China\'s huge financial resources, technical expertise and modern technology in order to help revive the economy, Mnangagwa told the official Xinhua news agency in an interview on Saturday.In December, Zimbabwe signed a $153 million loan agreement with China to expand and refurbish its international airport in Harare in a bid to attract investors and tourists, the first such deal under the new government.China\'s foreign ministry said a trip to Beijing by Zimbabwe\'s military chief one week before the army seized power in the South African nation was a "normal military exchange" amid speculation at the time he had come to brief on plans to seize power.Mnangagwa is likely to join other African leaders coming to Beijing in September for a summit held once every three years.(Reporting by Christian Shepherd; Editing by Robert Birsel)
SAN FRANCISCO   As far as the stock market is concerned, U.S. President Donald Trump is, right now, his own worst enemy.The president - who frequently touted Wall Street\'s rally following his 2016 election victory - was partly blamed for a sharp stock selloff on Monday that investors believe is likely to continue, deepening cracks in a nine-year-old bull run.The selling was sparked by escalating fears of a trade war as China slapped tariffs on a host of U.S. goods as Trump prepares to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese imports, and by Trump\'s renewed criticism of Amazon.com Inc."The president\'s behavior is now beginning to impact the capital markets - both the averages and individual equities," said Doug Kass, president of Seabreeze Partners Management in Palm Beach, Florida.Particularly worrisome to investors on Monday: more weakness in the tech sector, which led the market up in recent months, and a breach below a major S&P 500 technical level.In a Twitter post, Trump attacked Amazon for a second time in three days over the pricing of its deliveries through the United States Postal Service and promised unspecified changes.Amazon\'s stock slumped 5.2 percent and led the S&P 500 and Nasdaq down, pressuring other high-growth, technology-related stocks, including Microsoft Corp, Apple Inc and Facebook Inc. Outcry in recent weeks over Facebook\'s handling of data about its users has shaken the tech sector with fears of greater governmental oversight."(One) big factor is Trump further going after the tech sector, namely Amazon," said Tom di Galoma, managing director at Seaport Global Holdings in New York. "It casts a shadow effectively around all of the tech sector."TECH SECTOR PAIN = MARKET PAINThe selloff in technology-related stocks was seen as a particularly worrisome sign for investors who have banked on that sector continuing to drive the broader market."It\'s very significant," said Michael Purves, chief global strategist at Weeden & Co in New York. "Selling tech is not a sector rotation story, its a sell-the-market story."Technology stocks have been widely viewed in recent months as a "crowded trade" - with most investors having the same opinion, increasing the potential for a volatile selloff if sentiment changes."What we\'ve learned over the past two weeks is just how overweight investors were in technology," said Nicholas Colas, co-founder of Datatrek Research, New York.Investors saw more selling pressure ahead, particularly after the S&P 500 dipped below a major technical level, the 200-day moving average, for the first time since Britain voted to leave the European Union in June 2016. The index closed at 2,582, for a year-to-date decline of 3.4 percent."We have been pounding on the 200-day for the last six sessions and now we\'ve broken through," said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab in Austin, Texas. There may be support around the 2,537 level, he said, "but then below that we may be looking at 2,500 or so again, which is pretty scary."In Trump\'s first year as president, the S&P 500 surged 24 percent on bets he would boost the economy with fiscal spending, deregulation and deep tax cuts. Trump tweeted frequently about the stock market as it rallied through 2017. But since a selloff in February, he has been noticeably silent.But this bull market has frequently staged swift recoveries, and some were poised for opportunity."I\'m taking advantage of these markets and am heavily overweighted financials and banks," said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer Of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida. "I didn\'t buy today, we\'re in freefall, but I might tomorrow."(Reporting by Noel Randewich; additional reporting by Kate Duguid, Karen Brettell, Jennifer Ablan and Megan Davies in New York; editing by Megan Davies and Leslie Adler)

(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A celebrity jeweler on the run, the Vaticans deal with China crumbles and Apple scores a coup in the fight for A.I. Heres what you need to know:  At least four people were injured, one of them critically, in a shooting at YouTubes headquarters in San Bruno, Calif.The shooter, who the police said was a woman, died from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound. Check back for the latest on this developing story.Google, which owns YouTube, said on Twitter that it was coordinating with authorities and would provide more information when it was available._____ Until we can have a wall and proper security, were going to be guarding our border with the military.President Trump made the pledge on his third day of railing about Americas weak border laws, stirred by Fox Newss alarmist coverage of a caravan of migrants slowly heading north through Mexico.Our reporters note: The U.S. military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions like apprehending people at the border.The Trump administration also published a list of more than 1,000 Chinese products that will soon face a 25 percent import tax, including electronic touch screens, iron and steel plates, medical devices, aircraft parts and batteries.The move is likely to inflame a trade war that has already drawn fierce opposition from some of Americas biggest companies. An unexpected pawn: Californias wine._____ Another quote worth noting: I think there is no religion in human society that is above the state.That was a senior Beijing official, underscoring Chinas intention to maintain strict control over all religious organizations and their believers  and dimming the prospects of what appeared to be an imminent deal with the Vatican.And our Magazine looks at President Xi Jinpings consolidation of power by considering Hong Kongs missing booksellers._____  In India, less than a day after announcing penalties for journalists who write or broadcast fake news, the office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi withdrew them.The government gave no official explanation, but some in the country had seen the rules as an attack on the press ahead of campaigning for national elections.The country may be more captivated  or enraged  by the tale of Nirav Modi, Indias jeweler to the stars. Hes now on the run, accused of amassing a global empire with nearly $3 billion obtained illegally from government-run banks._____ The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King was assassinated 50 years ago.Today, we remember him and the battles that outlived him: workers rights, a sprawling protest movement, persistent segregation and poverty.The Times obituary celebrated him as a prophet in the crusade for racial equality and a voice for millions of African Americans.He was their voice of anguish, it reads, their eloquence in humiliation, their battle cry for human dignity. Tesla says it is rapidly addressing bottlenecks in the production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week  a nice jump from last year but still short of investors hopes. Teslas shares, which have been battered recently, rose on the news. Apple hired Googles chief of artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea, 53, a major coup in the race for A.I. skills and tech. Welcome to the Big Board: Spotify shares began trading at $165.90, initially giving the Swedish company a valuation of more than $33 billion. (There was some botched hospitality: The New York Stock Exchange flew the Swiss flag.) The Walt Disney Company offered to buy Sky News  an effort to help Rupert Murdochs 21st Century Fox buy full control of Sky Newss parent company, the broadcaster Sky. U.S. stocks were up across the board. Heres a snapshot of global markets. Indonesia declared a state of emergency over a seven-square-mile oil spill off the coast of Borneo whose source had not yet been identified. At least four fishermen were killed over the weekend when the fuel ignited, and hundreds of people reported health issues. [BBC] The Thai police found 9.4 million speed pills and 788 kilograms (more than 1,700 pounds) of crystal meth hidden in tea packets in a truck. Street value: more than $54 million. [Bangkok Post] A pair of Belarusian sex instructors who say they have evidence that Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential race face imminent deportation from Thailand to Russia or Belarus. [The New York Times] The cherished sword of a samurai who in the late 19th century established a prominent winery in California was found in the ruins of a building destroyed in last years wildfires. [The Asahi Shimbun] Foodies in Southeast Asia have laid into a British cooking shows judges for insisting that a Malaysian contestants chicken rendang curry should have been crispy. [A.P.] A story sweeping China: A taxi driver from Chengdu and his wife will be reunited with their missing daughter after searching for her for 24 years. [South China Morning Post]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Save your relationship  outsource the chores (if you can). Make a luxury trip to Paris affordable with these tips. Recipe of the day:  Swedish meatballs, mashed potatoes and a little lingonberry jam. Special rules in American football: A Times reporter found stringent rules in place for N.F.L. cheerleaders, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons  even as the sport grapples with accusations of domestic violence and sexual harassment. From our At War blog: Alissa J. Rubin, our former Baghdad bureau chief, made a return trip to northern Iraq  and found herself navigating checkpoints as endless as the rival armed fighters manning them. Anna Chennault, a Chinese-born anti-Communist Washington lobbyist, died last week. She dabbled in foreign intrigue after the death of her husband, the renowned leader of World War IIs Flying Tigers.Each week, The Timess crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous weeks puzzles.This weeks word: Niobe.The Greek mythological character Niobe was the subject of a tough clue from last Wednesdays crossword puzzle:  Like ___, all tears: Hamlet. The word has appeared in Times crosswords 139 times.Niobe is most closely associated with tears, as noted in William Shakespeares Hamlet:It was arrogance that was Niobes undoing, and the cause of her tears.The story of Niobes tears began at a ceremony held to honor the Titan Leto, mother of the twin gods Apollo and Artemis. In a fit of arrogance, Niobe bragged that she was superior to Leto because she had more children (either 12 or 14, depending on the version of the myth).When the twins heard this, they came to Earth and killed all of Niobes children. In deep anguish, she ran to Mount Sipylus to beg the gods to put an end to her pain. Zeus felt sorry for her and turned her into a rock, so she would not feel anymore.However, even as a rock, Niobes tears continued to flow, and the stream that pours from the real Weeping Rock in Manisa, Turkey, symbolizes a mothers eternal mourning.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on the Trump administration\'s proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of American technology. (all times local):8 p.m.China\'s Commerce Ministry says it "strongly condemns and firmly opposes" the proposed new U.S. tariffs and warns of retaliatory action."We will prepare equal measures for U.S. products with the same scale" according to regulations in Chinese trade law, a spokesman says in comments carried by the official Xinhua News Agency.The ministry says "the U.S. has published these tariff proposals with disregard to China\'s solemn representations and without factual basis.""This is typical of unilateralism and trade protection," it adds.The statement says the U.S. move ignores the voices of industry in both countries and the interests of consumers and is not conducive to China, the U.S, and the world\'s economic interests. China intends to refer this to the WTO\'s trade dispute settlement mechanism, it says.___7:40 p.m.The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a U.S. think tank for science and technology policy, is cautioning the Trump administration against imposing tariffs on Chinese goods that the foundation says support U.S. productivity."The Trump administration is right to push back against China\'s abuse of economic and trade policy," its president, Robert Atkinson, said in a statement. "The list of tariffs that USTR has proposed today would hurt companies in the U.S. by raising the prices and reducing consumption of the capital equipment they rely on to produce their goods and services.Atkinson added:"The focus should be on things that will create the most leverage over China without raising prices and dampening investment in the kinds of machinery, equipment, and other technology that drives innovation and productivity across the economy."___7:05 p.m.The Chinese embassy in Washington says it "strongly condemns" the Trump administration\'s planned tariffs. In a statement, the embassy says the proposal "serves neither China\'s interest, not the U.S. interest, even less the interest of the global economy."And it hinted that Beijing would retaliate with trade sanctions of its own: "As the Chinese saying goes, it is only polite to reciprocate."The embassy said China would seek relief from the World Trade Organization and "take corresponding measures of equal scale and strength against U.S. products in accordance with Chinese law."___6:45 p.m.The U.S.-China Business Council has long complained that China\'s policies have discriminated against U.S. technology companies. But the council argues that the latest proposed tariffs against Beijing are not the answer."Unilateral tariffs may do more harm than good and do little to address the problems in China (intellectual property) and tech transfer policies," said John Frisbie, president of the council.___5:54 p.m.The Trump administration is recommending 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese imports to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of American technology.The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative has issued a list targeting 1,300 Chinese products, including industrial robots and telecommunications equipment. But the proposed tariffs wouldn\'t take effect before a public comment period ends May 11.The move is the latest in a series of aggressive actions the administration has taken to combat what it calls unfair trade practices by China and other countries. American businesses worry that the administration\'s moves will draw painful retaliatory sanctions.
SEOUL/NEW YORK   A unit of U.S. activist hedge fund Elliott Management revealed on Wednesday that it holds more than $1 billion worth of shares in key affiliates of South Korea\'s Hyundai Motor Group and called for more rapid reform of the auto giant\'s governance.It is Elliott\'s latest challenge to South Korea\'s family-run conglomerates after it forced Samsung Electronics Co Ltd to increase shareholder returns in 2017, and comes amid a government campaign to boost investors\' power in a country where shareholder activism is rare.Elliott Advisors called for a "more detailed roadmap" as to how Hyundai Motor Group will "improve corporate governance, optimize balance sheets, and enhance capital returns" at Hyundai Mobis, Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors.Hyundai Mobis shares jumped as much as 6.1 percent to their highest since Jan. 25 in the wake of the announcement. Hyundai Motor rose 4.9 percent, its highest in three weeks, while Kia Motors gained 3.8 percent in morning trade in Seoul, versus the broader market\'s 0.13 percent fall. Hyundai Glovis shares rose as much as 4.8 percent."I see Elliott\'s call as positive, as it should enhance shareholder value," said Kim Sung-soo, a fund manager at LS Asset Management."Elliott has declared war against Hyundai but it has not made detailed demands, so further discussions need to be seen."Auto-to-steel giant Hyundai Motor Group announced a plan last week to streamline its complex ownership structure as it responds to calls from the government and investors for greater transparency and better governance at family-controlled conglomerates, or chaebols.But worries that the plan would benefit the parent groups controlling family ahead of investors have hit the share prices of group companies such as parts supplier Hyundai Mobis.While Elliott said it was pleased that Hyundai Motor Group had taken a first step toward reform, it added in a statement that "more needs to be done to benefit the companies and stakeholders"."Elliott looks forward to engaging with management and other stakeholders directly on these issues, and to offering recommendations regarding the proposed plan," the hedge fund said.Hyundai Motor Group responded that it was "confident" its restructuring plan would enhance shareholder value, and promised to communicate with investors at home and abroad.BATTLE WITH CHAEBOLSLast year, South Koreas new antitrust chief told Reuters he had been in talks with Hyundai Motor Group about unwinding its circular shareholdings, which critics say give too much power to the controlling family at the expense of shareholders.Under Hyundai\'s plan, Hyundai Mobis is to spin off its domestic module and after-service parts businesses and merge them with logistics affiliate Hyundai Glovis, which is personally backed by Hyundai\'s controlling Chung family.But some investors complained that Mobis could be giving away the most profitable part of its business too cheaply.The plan is yet to be approved by shareholders.After the merger, Group Chairman Chung Mong-koo and his son Chung Eui-sun, who is vice-chairman, will buy stakes in Mobis held by other affiliates Kia Motors, Glovis and Hyundai Steel.The group has not announced when the family members would buy the Mobis stakes."Hyundai is considered weak in being clear about its corporate governance and policies for shareholders. Now that it (Elliot) is going public and asking Hyundai for an answer, it is generating expectations for positive change," said Esther Yim, a Samsung Securities analyst.Elliott\'s intervention is another headache for Hyundai, which is already struggling with slowing sales in China and the United States and Seouls diplomatic row with Beijing last year.Paul Singers $33 billion firm Elliott Management is one of the few investors willing to take on South Korea\'s powerful chaebols.In 2015 it narrowly lost its battle to block a merger of two Samsung Group affiliates that will allow the controlling Samsung family to consolidate their holdings ahead of a leadership transition.In 2016, Elliott called on Samsung Electronics to introduce a transparent holding company structure and pay a special dividend, among other demands. Samsung rejected the call for a holding company, but announced plans to cancel its existing treasury shares worth over $35 billion by 2018.Samsung Electronics Vice-Chairman Jay Y. Lee was later jailed for bribing a friend of former President Park Geun-hye in exchange for government support for a restructuring seen as advantageous to the controlling Lee family.(Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin in Seoul and Liana B. Baker in New York; Additional reporting by Ju-min Park and Dahee Kim; Editing by Tom Brown and Stephen Coates)
LONDON   Britain is looking for a "proportionate way" to respond to the threat posed by Russia, a spokesman for Prime Minister Theresa May said on Tuesday, after a retired Russian army official said the poisoning of a former spy could start a new world war."We need to respond in a proportionate way to this aggressive behavior from Russia and that\'s what we\'re doing," the spokesman said when asked if there was a real risk of triggering a war.Evgeny Buzhinsky, a retired lieutenant general, was quoted in British newspapers on Tuesday as saying the fallout of the attack could trigger "the last war in the history of mankind".(Reporting By William James. Writing by Andrew MacAskill; editing by Stephen Addison)
NEW DELHI  Nirav Modi brightened Kate Winslets earlobes and made Taraji P. Hensons collarbone glitter.A jeweler to the stars, Mr. Modi attained wealth and fame at home in India in a few short years. He socialized with British royalty and rubbed elbows with Donald Trump Jr. He opened an opulent outlet on Madison Avenue in New York. In January, he met with Narendra Modi, Indias prime minister and no relation, at the annual gathering of the worlds elite in Davos, Switzerland.Today, he is on the run.About a week after Mr. Modi grinned for the cameras with the prime minister, a state-run Indian bank told regulators that it had found nearly $1.8 billion in fraudulent transactions linked to the jewelers account. Indian officials now accuse Mr. Modi, his family and business associates of assembling a global empire with nearly $3 billion in money obtained illegally, mostly from government-run banks. He denies wrongdoing.The chase has enraged and captivated India at a time when the public increasingly believes the countrys debt-laden government banks are enriching its flashiest, most corrupt business tycoons. Parliament sessions have deteriorated into screaming matches, with political opponents exchanging accusations of collusion with the jeweler.Finding Mr. Modi has become something of a national pastime. Reporters in New York camped outside a luxury hotel, the JW Marriott Essex House, where they believed Mr. Modi was staying. One who rang the bell outside what they believed to be his room found only a servant and a fluffy white dog.For many Indians, the allegations against Mr. Modi further cement the notion that taxpayer-owned banks are footing the bill for the lavish lifestyles of a rising elite. That idea has particular resonance in a country where stark poverty  India is home to a third of the worlds poorest people  remains dire.Before Mr. Modi, India watched as Vijay Mallya, an airlines-and-liquor magnate known as the King of Good Times, fled to Britain as banks tried to collect $1.4 billion. Many of the banks left on the hook were state-owned. He has denied wrongdoing.The state-owned Bank of Baroda has drawn news media attention over its business with the three Gupta brothers, who left India in 1993 and built a sprawling corporate empire in South Africa. They have been caught up in a political scandal there that led to the resignation of South Africas president, Jacob Zuma.Bank of Baroda denied wrongdoing in a written response to questions, asserting that it acted in good faith and that many of the transactions it handled for the Gupta brothers were received from other banks.In February, the Indian authorities arrested Vikram Kothari, a ballpoint pen magnate, saying he had diverted loans given to his company by seven government-owned lenders. He also denied wrongdoing.The allegations against Mr. Modi have only strengthened peoples wariness of the state banks. Indian officials have publicly accused him of working with tellers at a single branch of one of them, Punjab National Bank, to obtain $1.8 billion from branches of other banks. So far, five Indian banks have been swindled in the scandal, four of them government-owned, the authorities in New Delhi say.Just a decade ago, during the global financial crisis, Indian lenders were held up as a bastion of stability. Today, they are considered more vulnerable than those in other leading emerging markets, mostly because state-controlled lenders dominate the sector, according to the International Monetary Fund.Of the $6.5 billion in fraudulent loans that have hit the industry over the past two years, the most egregious cases were at government-owned banks, according to figures released by Parliament. Executives at those lenders are more likely to be appointed for their political connections than for their talent, financial analysts say.For every Nirav Modi in this country, theres 10 more, and they are emboldened when they see the government failing to take action or pursue the right protocols, said Vineet Dhanda, a lawyer who is urging the Indian government to tighten up the banking sector.Mr. Dhanda questioned how major business figures like Mr. Modi could raise billions from banks without providing collateral, yet the average farmer struggles to get a few hundred dollars for a loan.The money they are stealing is from the poor people of this country, he said. If this money is swindled away, then it comes from the taxpayers to fix the banks.Mr. Modis lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, denies his client defrauded banks and says there is only a misunderstanding over a much smaller loan worth about $40 million. He accused the banks and government authorities of damaging his clients reputation and the Nirav Modi brands value, making it harder for the company to settle its debts.This was a case of civil transaction which the authorities have converted into a criminal one unnecessarily, Mr. Aggarwal said in an interview.Diamond traders and jewelers have long marveled at Mr. Modis rise. Nicknamed NiMo in the press, from the first syllables of his name, Mr. Modi was known for wearing custom-made cuff links with the fish from Finding Nemo.Born in Antwerp, Belgium, to a relatively small diamond trading family, Mr. Modi attended the prestigious Wharton School of Business before dropping out at 19 to join the family business in Mumbai.He first rose to international prominence in 2010, when he designed a necklace featuring a 12.29-carat diamond set with smaller pink diamonds. It was auctioned by Christies in Hong Kong for $3.56 million, nearly $1 million more than its asking price.The bidding war landed Mr. Modi on the cover of the Christies catalog, the first Indian to be featured so prominently by the auction house. He formed his Nirav Modi brand later that year and announced plans to open 100 stores around the world by 2025.In 2015, Mr. Modi opened his flagship store on Madison Avenue, a few blocks from the luxury giants Cartier, Saks and Dior. Donald Trump Jr. was there, taking a break from his fathers presidential campaign, as were actors and models: Naomi Watts and Coco Rocha posed for photos on the red carpet in front of the Nirav Modi logo. The next year, Mr. Modi designed 100 carats worth of diamonds that Ms. Winslet wore to the Oscars.His rapid ascent puzzled some in the diamond industry, who say building a luxury brand takes both time and money.Using models and actresses that are world-renowned to consumers  that makes a brand seem solid, said Karma El Khalil, a jeweler based in New York. But its incredibly expensive.His lifestyle rose with his fame, according to interviews with colleagues and friends and local news reports that tracked his purchases. He bought a Rolls-Royce for family use. He had an aquarium built that covered an entire wall of his office. He bought an apartment in an exclusive, seaside high-rise called Sea Palace that is home to some of Mumbais wealthiest people, including one of the founders of the information technology giant Infosys.But the authorities in New Delhi say he projected an image of success built on bank loans and fraudulent letters of understanding, part of a strategy to expand his business in the hope that profits would eventually outstrip debts.The arms of the law are long, said Abhishek Dayal, a spokesman for the Central Bureau of Investigation, the main government body investigating the case. We will get them.Mr. Modis flight has shaken diamond traders in Antwerp and Mumbai.Until the allegations surfaced, he seemed to fit well in an international industry that often works based on trust and personal relationships. For example, a trader will often mail a diamond to another and give the other person a window of up to four months to evaluate the gem before expecting payment.Mr. Modi quickly won a reputation as someone who could be trusted, say diamond traders. He often paid within days after receiving diamonds.Now traders are wondering whether the industry trusted him too quickly, and what the fallout on the international diamond trade will be. A diamond dealer in Antwerp said he and his colleagues became anxious last month when the Indian government banned its banks from issuing letters of credit to finance trade abroad, making it harder for Indian diamond traders  some of the biggest players in the industry  to buy stones.Your reputation is based on today, said Sabyasachi Roy, the executive director of Indias Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce.Today youre great until youre not. Today you have actresses wearing your designs; tomorrow no one will look at you. But everyone was surprised by his quick rise.
GENEVA   China has notified the World Trade Organization it is imposing $611.5 million worth of retaliatory tariffs on $2.75 billion worth of U.S. imports including pork, nuts and ethanol in response to U.S. duties on aluminum and steel, a WTO document showed.The document, dated last Thursday but posted only after the Easter public holidays, came after China said late on Sunday it has increased tariffs by up to 25 percent on 128 U.S. products, escalating a dispute between the world's biggest economies.China has fulfilled its legal duty to notify the WTO and other member states of its retaliatory measures.(Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay; Editing by Adrian Croft)
WASHINGTON   The U.S. International Trade Commission said on Tuesday that the dumping of biodiesel imports from Argentina and Indonesia harms American producers, a move that locks in place duties on the imports.The commission\'s final phase determination followed a Commerce Department move in February to add anti-dumping duties of 60.44 percent to 276.65 percent to already steep anti-subsidy duties on imported biodiesel from Argentina and Indonesia.The independent panel had already found in the subsidy cases that the imports caused such injuries.The latest duties make it virtually certain that biodiesel from Argentina and Indonesia will not be sold in the U.S. market, with combined rates of up to 159 percent on the Argentine fuel and up to 341 percent on Indonesian variety.The trade case was filed by the National Biodiesel Board and 15 member companies that alleged a flood of subsidized imports sold below fair market value was preventing U.S. producers from earning an adequate return.The vote marked the last procedural hurdle before final antidumping orders can be issued this month, the board said in a statement."This vote today finalises the case to address the harm that unfair trade practices have had on the U.S. biodiesel industry, said Donnell Rehagen, the board\'s chief executive officer. "Foreign producers dumping product into American markets below cost has undermined the jobs and environmental benefits that U.S. biodiesel brings to the table."(Reporting by Doina Chiacu in Washington and Michael Hirtzer in Chicago; Editing by Tom Brown)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A flip-flop in Israel, insults from Turkey and the worlds first ban on fake news. Heres the latest: Guess its just one of those days.So began a tweet from the European Unions delegation in Israel, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Monday that he had reached a surprise deal with the United Nations refugee agency to resettle thousands of African migrants in Western countries.But Mr. Netanyahu suspended the deal hours later, after facing a barrage of outrage from his conservative coalition partners angry that half the migrants would be allowed to stay in Israel. His opponents on the left described the reversal as cowardly.The deal, which had brought Israel some short-lived international good will after a deadly clash with Palestinians last week, was intended to avoid a contentious Israeli plan that had offered the migrants a stark choice: forced deportation to Africa or prison.Above, protesting the plan last month in Tel Aviv._____ His favorite script: insulting people his supporters love to hate, like the liberal elite.No, were not talking about President Trumps tweets.Befitting the current era of strongmen, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey also has a well-honed strategy for winning public support. He gives up to three speeches every weekday  two a day on weekends  broadcast live on multiple channels.Another of his preferred targets? European leaders._____ What do a pair of Belarusian sex instructors detained in Thailand have to do with the investigation into Russias meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential race?Alexander Kirillov and Anastasia Vashukevich, above, say they have evidence showing Russia interfered, and they claim to be the targets of a covert Russian plot to silence them because they know too much.That might seem far-fetched, but the seduction coaches have powerful Russian enemies. And the F.B.I. says it tried to talk to them, suggesting that American investigators had not entirely dismissed their story._____ Afghan military helicopters bombed a religious ceremony in the countrys north, killing at least 70 people and wounding 30 others at a mosque. Witnesses said that many children were among the victims. Above, a young victim at a hospital.The military said it was targeting Taliban militants.The groups fighters have increasingly gone high-tech, carrying out attacks using night-vision goggles and lasers that American military officials say were stolen or bought on the black market._____ Charming, intelligent, complex, fiery and eloquent.Thats how our obituary describes Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, known to most of the world through her marriage to Nelson Mandela.She died early Monday at the age of 81.In time, our former international correspondent wrote, her reputation became scarred by accusations of extreme brutality toward suspected turncoats, misbehavior and indiscretion in her private life, and a radicalism that seemed at odds with Mr. Mandelas quest for racial inclusiveness._____ The worlds first ban on fake news.The lower house of Malaysias Parliament passed a bill that allows for up to six years in prison for publishing or circulating misleading information, and its upper house is expected to rapidly follow suit. Above, an advertisement discouraging the spread of fake news, at a train station in Kuala Lumpur last month.Critics say the law is intended to stifle dissent before elections.In the U.S., dozens of local TV anchors gave the same speech denouncing fake news recently. It turned out they were doing a forced read of a corporate script from the countrys largest broadcaster, Sinclair. Critics have accused the company of using its stations to bolster public support for President Trump. The U.S. stock market tumbled, spurred by a flurry of bad news about technology companies and continued worries about a trade war with China. Above, a New York Stock Exchange trader on Monday. Spotify, the Swedish music-streaming giant, begins trading today with a valuation that could exceed $20 billion. Instead of an initial public offering, its using the rare and potentially risky process known as a direct listing: No new stock is issued, and insiders can begin selling their stash on Day 1. The Final Four of student debt: In the spirit of March Madness (which we explained in last Fridays Back Story), we devised a tournament to compare the systems in Australia, Britain, Sweden and the U.S. (Australia got the trophy.)  Heres a snapshot of global markets. President Trump is renewing a push to crack down on illegal immigration and make it more difficult to obtain refuge in the United States. Above, a Honduran mother and children next to the U.S.-Mexico border fence in February. [The New York Times] More than one in five British manufacturers are expected to lay off workers because of Brexit, according to a study released on Sunday. [Politico] In India, seven people have died during huge protests against a Supreme Court order that many fear will weaken protections for lower-caste communities, which have long faced violence and discrimination. [BBC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young may, possibly, create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus. The mystery of the mummy. A museum wasnt sure whose head it had put on display. Thats when the F.B.I.s forensic scientists were called in to crack the agencys oldest case. Above, a team of doctors extracting a tooth from the mummy head in 2009. In the wake of mass shootings in the U.S., a lifelong gun owner questions the weapons he has long believed are essential to protecting himself and his country. The French-Polish photographer Tim Franco used portraits to tell the stories of North Korean defectors, opening a window into the identities of people whose lives are brutally cut into two parts: before and after. A year in a masters life: In 1932 the world was tilting toward catastrophe. Picasso was becoming a god, says our reporter, who reviews the Tates new exhibition in London, Picasso 1932, which is filled with point-blank masterpieces. The redemption of a violin prodigy. Saul Chandler played at Carnegie Hall in New York before he was 11, but the pressure to perform grew so unbearable that he gave up the violin at 16. This riveting story explores how he remade his life  and found peace  by building boats. And after nearing extinction 20 years ago, the Iberian lynx has made a comeback in southern Spain and Portugal, thanks to a vast E.U. recovery program and about 50,000 rabbits.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: Some of the biggest companies in the U.S., including General Electric and Goldman Sachs, are warning the White House about the negative effects of punitive measures against China. Theyre worried theyll be cut off from the worlds most lucrative and fastest-growing market.China has long been accused of unfair economic practices, and the Trump administration has promised to crack down on such behavior. Now China is retaliating. Thats unnerved the markets. Steep declines on Monday left stocks down more than 4 percent this year, and shares had their first quarterly decline since 2015. Heres a snapshot of global markets today. President Trump is making a new push to crack down on those who enter the U.S. illegally, and to make it more difficult to get refuge in the country.For two days, the president has warned that caravans of immigrants are heading toward the U.S. from Central America. We explain what those are. Separately on Monday, Russia pressed Mr. Trump to meet with President Vladimir Putin at the White House, a visit that the Kremlin said Mr. Trump proposed last month. Last year, the Environmental Protection Agency approved a Canadian energy companys pipeline-expansion plan. At the same time, the agencys chief, Scott Pruitt, was renting a condominium linked to the companys lobbying firm.Mr. Pruitt was paying $50 a night for the condo on Capitol Hill, where rates are typically considerably higher. Both the E.P.A. and the lobbying firm deny that there was a connection between the rental and the deals approval. Separately, Mr. Pruitt said on Monday that Obama-era car pollution standards were too high, setting up a fight with California, which has the authority to set its own emissions rules and wants to stick with tougher regulations. We looked at how U.S. fuel economy standards compare with those of other countries. Thousands of teachers in Kentucky and Oklahoma walked off the job on Monday, shutting down schools as they protested cuts in pay, benefits and school funding.The walkouts and rallies, which followed a similar movement in West Virginia last month, have caught lawmakers and sometimes the teachers labor unions flat-footed. In Kentucky, What Im seeing in Louisville is teachers are a lot more politically engaged than they were in 2015 or 2016, a math teacher said. It really is a wildfire. After a cheerleader for the New Orleans Saints was fired for posting a picture that the team deemed inappropriate to her private Instagram account, a Times reporter reviewed seven of the N.F.L.s cheerleader handbooks.He found stringent rules governing personal hygiene, like shaving techniques and the proper use of tampons, as well as attire outside the workplace. In some cases, wearing sweatpants in public is forbidden. The N.F.L. declined to comment. Tesla says that it has addressed bottlenecks in production of Model 3 electric cars, and is making 2,000 a week. The vehicle is crucial to the companys efforts to shore up its finances. In his first report to Congress as the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Mick Mulvaney asked lawmakers to severely curb his agencys power and independence. Facebook should consider adding a Why me? button next to all pushed content, our business columnist writes. Nirav Modi has been a jeweler to the stars. Hes now on the run, accused of bank fraud. The chase has both enraged and captivated his homeland, India.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Exercising while young might create more heart-muscle cells. Those two-minute walk breaks? They add up. Recipe of the day: Dont stress over dinner. Just make fettuccine with asparagus.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: I wrote a story about dulse a while ago. This led to a lot of people asking me what it is, and where it comes from.The short answer is that its seaweed, and a lot of it comes from Grand Manan, in New Brunswick.Check out this beautiful short film by Tory Lovekin, Dark Harbour Dollar: Dulse, for more. [Vimeo] Sam Sifton, food editor In memoriamWinnie Madikizela-Mandela was a leader in South Africas fight against apartheid, but her legacy was tarnished by scandals involving corruption, kidnapping, murder and the implosion of her marriage to Nelson Mandela. She was 81. 130 miles, 26 checkpointsFew American reporters have spent more time reporting from Iraq in the last 15 years than Alissa J. Rubin, who was Baghdad bureau chief for The Times at the height of the conflict.She returned to the region in January and, in a drive to the Iraq-Syria border, found that competing military and militia groups had set up checkpoints everywhere. Heres her account of the journey. The mummy and the F.B.I.A museum wasnt sure whose head it had put on display. So F.B.I. forensic scientists were called in to crack the coldest of cases. Villanova makes it look easyThe Wildcats completed a dominant run through the N.C.A.A. mens basketball tournament, crushing Michigan, 79-62.Its the second title in three years for Villanova, whose star on Monday was Donte DiVincenzo and his 31 points. Best of late-night TVThe comedy hosts were puzzled after President Trump declared April to be National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. April is also National Presidential Unawareness Month, Jimmy Fallon said. Quotation of the dayWere going to have a lot of teachers at the ballot box who I dont think would normally go in a midterm year. If I were a legislator right now, Id be honestly sweating bullets. Noah Karvelis, an elementary school music teacher in Arizona fighting for better pay. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, has a vibrant mix of people, languages and cultures. Its flag takes a similar hybrid approach.The flag was approved by the Chinese national legislature 28 years ago this week. It was first raised on July 1, 1997, the day Hong Kong was returned to Chinese rule after more than 150 years as a British colony and territory.The flag was designed to reflect Hong Kongs new relationship with the Peoples Republic of China. It is the same shade of red as the Chinese national flag.In the center is a white flower from the Bauhinia blakeana, or Hong Kong orchid tree. (The real flower is a purplish pink and is not actually an orchid.) Stars on each of the five petals echo the five stars on the Chinese flag.The flags two colors are said to represent the one country, two systems principle under which China agreed to rule Hong Kong for the first 50 years.In recent years, Hong Kong protesters have waved the British colonial flag to express their displeasure with the way Beijing governs. Since the handover in 1997, lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong have also been prosecuted for desecrating the Chinese and Hong Kong flags.Jennifer Jett contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
GENEVA   Yemen\'s foreign minister called on Tuesday for a return to the negotiating table to end the war in the Arabian peninsula\'s poorest country, where Saudi-backed Yemeni government forces are fighting Iran-aligned Houthi fighters."We need to find the ideal solution which is a return to the talks table, to put an end the war, to return to a sustainable system supported by the people of Yemen," Abdel-Malek al-Mekhlafi said.Addressing a U.N. conference in Geneva seeking pledges toward a $3 billion appeal, he added: "We aim to open up access to ports and airports" for humanitarian aid supplies.(Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay; editing by John Stonestreet)
 Good Tuesday. Heres what were watching: Spotifys shares opened at $165.90. If the markets fall again, we have some possible explanations. Should Facebook offer Why Me? buttons? Disney has offered to buy Sky News to help Foxs Sky bid.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Spotify is a loss-making company that might not report a profit until next decade, but that didnt stop investors from valuing the company at $30 billion when it debuted Tuesday on the United States stock market.Spotify is an impressive company. Its loyal, paying customer base is enormous and is expected to keep growing. Also, Spotify has so far held its own in the face of competition from Apple, Amazon and Google, all of which want to win new subscribers to their music streaming services.But there is an important reason that Wall Street is flocking to Spotify: It is doing a great job at getting record companies to roll over.Spotifys main cost is what it pays record companies for the music it streams to its customers. As Spotify has grown, that expense has fallen as a share of its total revenue, which shows that Spotify is negotiating increasingly advantageous deals with record companies.That has bolstered Spotifys gross profit margin, which measures how much money a company keeps after paying out the costs directly related to generating its revenue. Last year, that margin was 21 percent of revenue at Spotify, well up from 14 percent in 2016.Crucially, though, Spotify has said it expects its gross margin to expand to as much as 35 percent over the longer term. In other words, as Spotifys spending on music grows, so will its leverage over record companies. And it may well achieve its gross margin target. After all, Netflix, which occupies a similar position in the market for streaming video, has a gross margin of 35 percent.But Spotifys main rivals could complicate things. What if Amazon offered record companies better terms than Spotify? That would reduce Spotifys bargaining power, making it harder to deliver wider gross margins investors are expecting. And Amazon, along with Apple and Google, has far deeper pockets to slog it out over the long term. Peter EavisSpotifys unusual path to the public markets was a success.On its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the music streaming service finished with a valuation of $26.5 billion.Spotifys shares opened at $165.90 before closing at $149.01.Thats well above the high of $132.50 that its shares changed hands at in private transactions this year. Its also well above the $137.50 the WSJ reported its private shares were trading at during the past week.Spotify had eschewed a typical initial public offering in favor of a direct listing. That meant there was no deal price for investors to reference on the first day of trading and no underwriters acting as stabilizing agents if the stock began to plunge.Despite all that, Spotifys valuation at the close on Tuesday ranks among the highest for a tech company debuting on an American exchange.Heres a look at the tech companies with the 10 biggest market capitalizations after their first day of trading, courtesy of Dealogic:Alibaba  $233.9 billionFacebook  $81.7 billionPalm  $53.3 billionInfineon Technologies  $47.9 billionJD.com  $28.9 billionSnap  $28.9 billionGoogle  $27.2 billionSpotify  $26.5 billionTwitter  $24.9 billionAgilent  $20.1 billionShares of the electric carmaker are up 3.3 percent Tuesday after the company released production data Tuesday that showed progress in producing its mass-market Model 3.Tesla said: It built 2,020 Model 3s in the past seven days. That fell short of its goal of 2,500 by the end of the quarter. Tesla produced 9,766 Model 3s during the quarter. In total, Tesla produced 35,000 cars in the first quarter. It has delivered 8,800 Model 3s during the first quarter, below the 8,800 analysts expected according to Bloomberg. In all, Tesla delivered a record 29,980 vehicles during the quarter. The company said it expects Model 3 weekly production to reach 5,000 by the end of the second quarter. The combined deliveries of the Model X and Model S came to 21,800 cars, the lowest total in several quarters.ContextTeslas stock and bond prices have plunged amid concerns about how much cash the company is using as it struggles to speed up assembly and sales of the Model 3. With a starting price of $35,000, the car is supposed to be more affordable than Teslas other cars. The company has been counting on a quick expansion of its Model 3 business to increase revenue.The president reiterated his claim that Amazon is costing the United States Postal Service massive amounts of money in a post to Twitter on Tuesday morning.Shares are essentially flat on the day.The accusation is the latest in a string of critical tweets that began Thursday about the e-commerce giant. As The Associated Press pointed out over the weekend, Mr. Trump is misrepresenting Amazons record with the United States Postal Service.Could Mr. Tumps criticism lead to action against Amazon?Gabriel Sherman over at Vanity Fair reports on a few of the ideas being tossed around, including pushing for the Postal Service to renegotiate its contract with Amazon and encouraging attorneys general in red states to open investigations into Amazons business practices.Wall Street analysts are largely advising investors to ignore the noise. But even if changes were made to sales tax collection, that may end up benefiting Amazon. Michael Olson, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, writes:Elliott Management has acquired a $1 billion stake in Hyundai Motors, Kia Motors and Hyundai Mobis.Last month, Hyundai simplified its ownership structure. The aim was to resolve the groups circular shareholdings, which critics have long said give too much power to Hyundais controlling Chung family at the expense of shareholders, Reuters reported.S.&P. 500 futures are up this morning, suggesting yesterdays market rout may not continue. And European and Asian markets didnt fall as sharply as did the U.S.s. But whats behind the markets dropping 4 percent so far this year? A couple of ideas: Washington (and Beijing), again: Chinas tougher-than-expected retaliatory tariffs gave investors more reason to fear a trade war. American pork and fruit producers are among those sweating. The Trump administrations unorthodox and unpredictable decision-making is likely to keep markets on edge, Mike Ryan of UBS Wealth Management told the FT. Tech, again: The FAANG stocks are still weighing down the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq, as the likes of Facebook and Google face the prospect of greater regulation and President Trump repeats his attacks on Amazon. (Tesla was down, too, but thats more understandable.) Technical issues: Traders could be trimming bull market bets.Peter Eaviss take: Before investors began fretting about tech and trade, the underpinnings of the stock markets ascent were perhaps not as robust as they looked. Analysts expect S.&P. 500 companies earnings to grow 25 percent this year. But rising interest rates worldwide could affect revenue growth. And if wages and other costs come in higher than expected, profit margins could get squeezed.The bottom line: Uncertainty has descended upon the markets, and it will be hard to shake off.In his latest column, Andrew suggests a way the company could make its practices more transparent  one that Google and Amazon could consider, while were at it: a button next to every ad and piece of content that would explain why a user is seeing it.More from Andrew:Also: Mark Zuckerberg just mused about greater transparency to Vox, and suggested an independent appeals process to review content on Facebook. Scott Stringer, the New York City comptroller, wants him out as Facebooks chairman. And why Southeast Asia, Facebooks fastest-growing market, poses it unique problems.Elsewhere in data privacy: Beijing and other governments are figuring out what data regulation means for A.I. And Grindr, the gay dating app, has stopped sharing users HIV statuses after a BuzzFeed expos. Amazon has visited more than half the cities shortlisted for its second headquarters, unnamed sources said, and the rest are scrambling for tips on their itineraries. (WSJ) Anthony Tan, the C.E.O. of Grab, speaks about beating Uber in Southeast Asia. (CNBC) Walmart is partnering with MoneyGram on a global remittance service, Walmart2World. (CNBC) Apple reportedly aims to start replacing Intel chips in iMacs with its own from 2020. (Bloomberg) Federal authorities arrested two founders of Centra, a virtual currency endorsed by Floyd Mayweather, and accused them of fraud. Shares in Monex Group rose after reports that it might buy the troubled cryptocurrency exchange Coincheck. And researchers suggest a new way to value Bitcoin (they say its overpriced).In offering to buy Sky News outright, Walt Disney is hoping to finally win regulatory approval for Foxs bid to buy the 61 percent of Sky that it doesnt already own. (Fox itself has proposed making Sky News fully separate, giving it an independent board and funding it for 15 years.)The bottom line: Disney wants Fox to have full control of Sky to support its $52.4 billion deal to buy most of Fox, and it wants to get ahead of Comcasts rival effort to buy that 39 percent of the British broadcaster.Elsewhere in deals: Harbor Energy has offered more than $10 billion to buy Santos, the Australian natural-gas driller. Why Sumner Redstone wont have the last word on merging CBS and Viacom. Walmart is reportedly in talks to buy PillPack, an online pharmacy start-up. G.E. will sell part of its health care info-tech business to Veritas Capital for $1.05 billion. And GreenSky, an online lender to customers of retailers like Home Depot, has reportedly filed for an I.P.O. John Kelly has considered firing Scott Pruitt, the director of the Environmental Protection Agency, whose travel expenses and housing arrangements have faced scrutiny. (Politico) The E.P.A. has challenged Californias car emission standards, while the Justice Department has sued the state over a newly passed state law governing land use. Mick Mulvaney asked Congress to weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, where hes acting head. (NYT) The White House nominated Justin Muzinich, an architect of the Republican tax overhaul, to be Steven Mnuchins deputy at the Treasury. (NYT) New York State may offer its own retirement fund for private-sector workers. (NYT) Meet Brian Ballard, one of Washingtons most powerful lobbyists. (Politico) John Thain is reportedly set to join Deutsche Banks supervisory board as part of a broader reshuffle. (Bloomberg) Phil Villhauer, a former top trader at Steven Cohens investment firm Point72, will join Citadel as deputy head of global equities. (NYT) John Giannandrea will step down as head of search and A.I. at Google. Ben Gomes will take over the search unit and Jeff Dean will lead the A.I. division. (The Information) Three directors  Jim Messina, Jim Rosenthal and Peter Diamandis  have stepped down from Virgin Hyperloop Ones board. A fourth, Ziyavudin Magomedov, was arrested in Moscow on fraud charges unrelated to the transport company. (Bloomberg) Adam Metz, the Carlyle Groups head of international real estate, and Jason Lee, the firms head of Asia real estate, have left the firm or will depart soon, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg) Sinclair Broadcast Group is taking heat over videos that show dozens of its local newscasters reading the same script criticizing their industry. Meanwhile, Malaysias lower house of Parliament passed a bill outlawing fake news. A celebrity jeweler, Nirav Modi, is on the run amid accusations that he accumulated almost $3 billion illegally, most of it from Indias state-run banks. (NYT) Mario Batali, who vanished from television and daily operations in his restaurant empire after accusations of misconduct, is eyeing a comeback. (NYT) Iftikar Ahmed was found liable for defrauding the venture firm Oak Investment Partners, where he was a general partner. (Axios) Private capital markets have become the most popular way to raise money in the U.S., raising concerns about oversight and concentration of power. (WSJ) A writer at Splinter reflects on what private equity has meant for his publisher, Univision. (Splinter) Michael Liberty has been accused by the S.E.C. of looting Mozido, the fintech company he founded, for tens of millions of dollars. (WSJ)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

MEXICO CITY   The Mexico economy ministry said on Tuesday it has formally imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of carbon steel pipe from South Korea, Spain, India and the Ukraine after completing an investigation into "unfair" trade practices.The investigation came at the request of a company and covered an analysis of the period from April 2013 to March 2016, the ministry said in a statement in the government\'s official gazette.Mexico has imposed duties in recent years on steel products from several countries after local steelmakers announced cuts in thousands of jobs in 2015 and cancelled investments.Recently, Mexico\'s economy ministry imposed anti-dumping duties in March on imports of carbon steel pipe from China.(Reporting by Veronica Gomez; Writing by Anthony Esposito; Editing by Bernadette Baum)
MOSCOW   Russia's defense ministry said on Tuesday that more than 40,000 civilians who had fled Syria's eastern Ghouta have returned, Interfax agency reported.The government offensive on Ghouta has been one of the deadliest of the war, killing more than 1,600 civilians, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The government says it is restoring security to Damascus, which was regularly shelled from eastern Ghouta during the war.In the past 24 hours, 1,123 rebel fighters and their families have left the town of Douma in eastern Ghouta, Interfax citied the Russian Ministry of Defence.From the start of the humanitarian pause's introduction in eastern Ghouta, 2,269 militants and their families left Douma, the largest urban center in the eastern suburbs of Damascus, the ministry said.(Reporting by Polina Nikolskaya; Editing by Larry King)
LOS ANGELES/SAN FRANCISCO   California farmers, many of whom voted for President Donald Trump and his tough talk on trade, say China\'s increased tariffs on products like almonds, pistachios and wine are a competitive blow, but some are hopeful they will lead to a better deal down the road.China said at the weekend that it was imposing retaliatory tariffs of between 15 and 25 percent on $2.75 billion worth of U.S. imports, including frozen pork, nuts and wine, in response to steep duties on aluminum and steel announced by the Trump administration.While California overall voted decisively for Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, many of the state\'s farmers supported Trump, who said he wanted to make international trade deals more fair.All but one of the state\'s top-five pistachio-producing counties went for Trump, as did the state\'s top almond-producing county, Kern.California almond farmer David Phippen says he has talked to a number of fellow almond farmers who continue to support Trump\'s efforts on trade even though they are disappointed to be hit by new tariffs that make their products more expensive in China."Is the administration going to get us a better deal? How long will it take to get that better deal?" Phippen said. "We have sustainability, but it\'s limited."Pistachios are California\'s biggest agricultural export to China, which bought $531 million worth of the nuts in 2016. Prior to the new tariffs, China had existing duties of 5 percent on raw pistachios and 10 percent on roasted pistachios from the United States, said Richard Matoian, executive director of the American Pistachio Growers.The additional 15 percent tariff "impacts our ability to compete with our competitors from Iran," said Matoian. California and Iran over the years have traded the title of world\'s top pistachio producer, he added.Almonds are China\'s second-biggest import from California farms. In 2016, China took 12 percent of California\'s almond crop, which was valued at about $518 million.The Chinese levy on U.S. almonds goes up from 10 percent to 25 percent, said Richard Waycott, president and chief executive of the Almond Board of California.Nut producers and sellers including Blue Diamond Growers, the Wonderful Co and Emerald Nuts owner Campbell Soup Co declined comment.California wine is also taking a hit.The latest import levy on wine will increase the total tariff and tax paid on a bottle of U.S. wine imported into China from 48.2 percent to 67.7 percent, according to the Wine Institute, which represents 1,000 wineries and affiliated businesses in California.The United States, predominantly California, exported wine valued at nearly $79 million to China last year, according to the Wine Institute.Australia could be set to benefit. As well as being geographically closer to China, in 2019 it will begin exporting almonds, wine and other products to China tariff-free.Chile and New Zealand wines also enter China tariff-free and only pay a 30 percent combined tax rate, the Wine Institute said."U.S. producers were already at a disadvantage to many foreign competitors, and this will only exacerbate that problem," said Robert Koch, president and CEO of Wine Institute.(Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles and Ann Saphir in San Francisco, Editing by Rosalba O\'Brien)
OSLO   Almost 35,000 private-sector workers organised by Norway's largest labour unions plan to go on strike from April 8 unless a deal is found over wages, pensions and other compensation, the unions said on Tuesday.The first wave of a strike would hit large parts of Norway's metals production by leaving smelters idle, and would have significant impact on the output of fertilisers. But the output of oil and gas from western Europe's largest producer would initially be spared, the unions said.Norway's Norsk Hydro is a major producer of aluminium, while Yara is among the world's largest makers of fertilisers.Other companies that would be hit include offshore engineering companies Aker Solutions and Kvaerner.Starting on Wednesday, a state mediator will attempt to broker a deal ahead of an April 7 deadline.In case of a protracted conflict, the Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions, known under its LO acronym, and the smaller Confederation of Vocational Unions (YS) could later escalate a strike to include more than 200,000 people.(Reporting by Terje Solsvik, editing by Camilla Knudsen)
Describing All the Cities of the North in words seems almost impossible, and also beside the point. This highly experimental feature from the director Dane Komljen, born in 1986 in the former Yugoslavia, does not present a conventional narrative or characters, or even images and sounds that always have obvious connections. (Thats clear from the start: We hear lapping waves during the opening credits, only for Mr. Komljen to cut to a still photograph of a movie theater interior, instead of the expected body of water.)The movie quotes Simone Weil and Jean-Luc Godard. All dialogue is in voice-over. The shards of a story initially focus on two men living on a decaying compound  according to a filmmakers note, an abandoned hotel complex on the outskirts of Montenegro. They never speak, but they are, at first, alone, camping in a space partly overtaken by nature. They doze together, scavenge the grounds and urinate outdoors.One recurring thread in All the Cities of the North concerns how people use and recycle buildings, appropriating spaces in ways for which they were not intended. The flurries of narration allude to socialistic objectives in architecture, whether in a Yugoslav companys construction work for the International Trade Fair in Lagos, Nigeria, or the plans for the 20th-century city of Braslia.It can be tough to say whether the movie is productively or arbitrarily baffling, but it is never boring, and it achieves a balance between natural flow and purposefulness that suits its subject matter.
MEXICO CITY   The United States, Mexico and Canada have made significant advances on reworking the NAFTA trade deal and ministers will meet in the coming days to determine the scope to agree on the basics of a deal, Mexico\'s economy minister said on Monday.Ildefonso Guajardo told Mexican radio he would travel to Washington on Wednesday for ministerial talks, adding that the United States was looking for a "quick solution."He added, "We\'ve made a lot of progress, but on the complex issues, well, it looks like there\'s a willingness to be flexible."Ministers and negotiating teams have been meeting for weeks to try to narrow their differences, and Guajardo also held out hope for progress on NAFTA at a summit in Peru that begins on April 13."There will be an opportunity at the Summit of the Americas for the three North American leaders to greet one another, and undoubtedly there could be an opportunity to send proactive messages and instructions at presidential level, irrespective of the fact that there is still technical work to do," he added.U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to dump NAFTA if it cannot be reworked to his satisfaction.In the next 12 days, there could be "the principal lines of understanding for solving complex issues" though the three sides were "not there yet," Guajardo said. A longer period would be required to hammer out technical details, he added."The ministers need to get working together to get things settled," said Guajardo, who has held meetings with his NAFTA counterparts, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer since a last formal round of negotiations ended in Mexico in early March.Guajardo said there was still no date set for another formal round of talks, adding, "It\'s clear that, given Washington\'s interest in advancing this process, they didn\'t want an eighth round."Instead, a ministerial meeting in "around two weeks" would decide what form another round could take, he said.Guajardo said the three were discussing a U.S. idea to have a certain amount of auto production in high-salary areas.Details of the plan began emerging after industry sources said U.S. officials had dropped a demand for at least 50 percent of automotive content to be from the United States, a highly contentious sticking point at the NAFTA negotiations.Such a modification could put Mexico at a disadvantage because of its lower salaries, and Guajardo said its potential impact would need to be evaluated.Besides autos, Mexico\'s negotiators aim for steps to improve conditions for its agriculture, textile, aerospace and medical device sectors, Guajardo said.(Reporting by Lizbeth Diaz and Dave Graham; Writing by Julia Love; Editing by Sandra Maler and Clarence Fernandez)
(Reuters) - U.S. defense contractor General Dynamics Corp said on Tuesday it completed its purchase of peer CSRA Inc in a deal valued at about $9.7 billion.CSRA will now be part of General Dynamics Information Technology and all shares of CSRA common stock will be delisted from the NYSE.The deal is expected to add to General Dynamics' earnings per share and free cash flow per share in 2019, the company said.The announcement comes a week after peer CACI International Inc withdrew its offer for CSRA amid the bidding war with General Dynamics.(Reporting by Sanjana Shivdas in Bengaluru; Editing by Shailesh Kuber)
GENEVA   Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates drew praise Tuesday at a U.N. conference for offering $1 billion in aid for Yemen, where their air campaign against Houthi rebels has killed thousands of civilians and their crippling blockade has hindered aid delivery.The one-day conference co-hosted by Sweden, Switzerland and the United Nations collected pledges totaling $2.01 billion from 40 countries and organizations.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres acknowledged that some donors were also "parties of the conflict.""We all know who ... the parties to the war (are)," he told reporters. "But the two things need to be seen separately, independently of the fact that there is a war. There are humanitarian obligations that are assumed by countries."With the situation worsening  Guterres called it "catastrophic"  the conference easily surpassed the funding pledges of $1.1 billion at a similar event last year. Overall, the U.N. has appealed for $2.96 billion to provide assistance and protection to people in Yemen in 2018."Several countries have already announced that there will be more donations from now until the end of the year," the U.N. chief said. "So we are quite optimistic."Guterres added that "as important as the financial contributions to this conference is the commitment of the parties to the conflict to come together to put an end to the war."He said information gleaned by his new special envoy for Yemen, Martin Griffiths, during a trip to the region led him to believe there were "positive perspectives" that could possibly lead to an "effective intra-Yemeni dialogue" at some point. Guterres cited an "opportunity to be seized."A Saudi-led, Western-backed coalition has been at war with Iran-allied Shiite rebels known as Houthis for three years in a conflict that has killed more than 10,000 people and left 22.2 million people needing humanitarian aid. The conflict has fanned the world\'s worst recent cholera outbreak and put many on the brink of starvation. Some 8.4 million people do not know how they will get their next meal, according to U.N. estimates.Health and sanitation systems are teetering in Yemen. Guterres noted that a child under 5 dies every 10 minutes from preventable causes.In his prepared remarks, Guterres noted how Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates  who have given military backing to Yemen\'s government, notably with air power and a sea blockade of rebel areas  had "generously provided" $930 million toward the humanitarian response plan even before the conference began.The final list of pledges showed that each country had offered $500 million.The United States announced nearly $87 million in additional humanitarian aid, while the European Union pledged 107.5 million in new funding this year.Thomas Staal, counselor for the U.S. Agency for International Development, or USAID, said the United States extended its "gratitude" to Saudi Arabia and UAE "for their significant contributions to the United Nations\' coordinated response."Amnesty International said it continues to turn up "grave" violations of international humanitarian law on all sides of the conflict."All warring parties must be held accountable," it said in an email. "All countries, including the United States and the United Kingdom, must also halt the flow of all arms to the conflict."Ken Roth, director of Human Rights Watch, said any humanitarian contribution was welcome amid such severe suffering."But that shouldn\'t absolve or change the subject from the Saudi-led coalition\'s primary responsibility for Yemen\'s humanitarian crisis due to its blockade and repeated bombing of Yemeni civilians and critical Yemeni infrastructure," Roth wrote in an email."Sending remedial aid doesn\'t exculpate Saudi Arabia and the UAE for their war-crime strategy of blockading and bombing Yemeni civilians," he added.
COLOMBO   Sri Lanka\'s Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe faces a no- confidence motion on Wednesday that could go down to the wire and lead to political instability in the island nation, even if the government manages to scrape a win.Wickremesinghe leads a national unity government in alliance with President Maithripala Sirisena\'s party, which has said it would vote against the prime minister, blaming him for failing to prevent an alleged scam in the bond market.The opposition, which swept local elections last month,  aims to drive a deeper wedge within the ruling coalition with the no-confidence motion and bring forward a national election due in 2020."There is common consensus in the party to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion," said Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, a minister of Sirisena\'s Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP)."Clearly the SLFP is of the view that the prime minister should step down."Wickremesinghe has faced criticism for failing to deliver on economic growth which slumped to 3.1 percent last year, its worst pace since a recession in 2001. The rupee currency is hovering at a record low.The government is also under pressure as it tries to manage China\'s expanding infrastructure push in Sri Lanka, located near key shipping lanes in the Indian Ocean, but which has raised fears that it could push the tiny country deep into debt.Wickremesinghe\'s United National Party-led coalition has 107 members in the 225-member parliament and, until now, the support of 42 members of the SLFP, which gave it a comfortable majority.But if the SLFP votes against the government, Wickremesinghe could lose his majority. He would then need the backing of minority parties in the opposition to stay in office.Eran Wickramaratne, the junior finance minister, said the UNP had asked for a quick vote "to end any uncertainty people will have in their minds" and hoped for a stronger government to emerge afterwards.Political instability is weighing on the economy, he said."You are not going to get 6-percent-plus kind of growth because of the political issues. We will move into 4-percent-plus in 2018," he told Reuters.The yields on Sri Lankas benchmark bonds have risen 83 basis points since early this year, and the central bank chief has also warned of risks to economic growth from political instability.POPULISM WILL RISEShailesh Kumar, Asian director at consultancy Eurasia group, foresaw limited cooperation between the UNP and the SLFP after the no-confidence motion, even if the prime minister survived."This means there will be limited appetite for economic legislation and instead the two will likely indulge in populism to shore up their positions ahead of the 2020 elections," he told Reuters.Foreign direct investments (FDI) doubled to $1.6 billion last year, but more than 40 percent of that was from China, for two key projects that have dragged on for more than a year.A trade pact signed with Singapore in January and expected free trade agreements with China and India later this year are seen boosting Sri Lanka\'s export revenue through new FDIs. But officials of the Board of Investment say investors have been waiting for clarity on the political front.(This version of the story corrects to read coalition in paragraph 8)(Additional reporting by Shihar Aneez; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan and Sanjeev Miglani and Richard Balmforth)
SYDNEY, (Reuters) - - Following is the text of the Reserve Bank of Australia's statement on Tuesday after its monthly monetary policy meeting. At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 1.50 per cent.The global economy has strengthened over the past year. A number of advanced economies are growing at an above-trend rate and unemployment rates are low. The Chinese economy continues to grow solidly, with the authorities paying increased attention to the risks in the financial sector and the sustainability of growth. Globally, inflation remains low, although it has increased in some economies and further increases are expected given the tight labour markets. As conditions have improved in the global economy, a number of central banks have withdrawn some monetary stimulus and further steps in this direction are expected. Long-term bond yields have risen over the past six months, but are still low. Equity market volatility has increased from the very low levels of last year, partly because of concerns about the direction of international trade policy in the United States. Credit spreads have also widened a little, but remain low. Financial conditions generally remain expansionary. There has, however, been some tightening of conditions in US dollar short-term money markets, with US dollar short-term interest rates increasing for reasons other than the increase in the federal funds rate. This has flowed through to higher short-term interest rates in a few other countries, including Australia. The prices of a number of Australia's commodity exports have fallen recently, but remain within the ranges seen over the past year or so. Australia's terms of trade are expected to decline over the next few years, but remain at a relatively high level. The Australian economy grew by 2.4 per cent over 2017. The Bank's central forecast remains for faster growth in 2018. Business conditions are positive and non-mining business investment is increasing. Higher levels of public infrastructure investment are also supporting the economy. Stronger growth in exports is expected after temporary weakness at the end of 2017. One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption, although consumption growth picked up in late 2017. Household income has been growing slowly and debt levels are high. Employment has grown strongly over the past year, with employment rising in all states. The strong growth in employment has been accompanied by a significant rise in labour force participation, particularly by women and older Australians. The unemployment rate has declined over the past year, but has been steady at around 5 1/2 per cent over the past six months. The various forward-looking indicators continue to point to solid growth in employment in the period ahead, with a further gradual reduction in the unemployment rate expected. Notwithstanding the improving labour market, wages growth remains low. This is likely to continue for a while yet, although the stronger economy should see some lift in wages growth over time. Consistent with this, the rate of wages growth appears to have troughed and there are reports that some employers are finding it more difficult to hire workers with the necessary skills. Inflation remains low, with both CPI and underlying inflation running a little below 2 per cent. Inflation is likely to remain low for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing. A gradual pick- up in inflation is, however, expected as the economy strengthens. The central forecast is for CPI inflation to be a bit above 2 per cent in 2018. On a trade-weighted basis, the Australian dollar remains within the range that it has been in over the past two years. An appreciating exchange rate would be expected to result in a slower pick-up in economic activity and inflation than currently forecast. The housing markets in Sydney and Melbourne have slowed. Nationwide measures of housing prices are little changed over the past six months, with prices having recorded falls in some areas. In the eastern capital cities, a considerable additional supply of apartments is scheduled to come on stream over the next couple of years. APRA's supervisory measures and tighter credit standards have been helpful in containing the build-up of risk in household balance sheets, although the level of household debt remains high. The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy. Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual. Taking account of the available information, the Board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time.
SAN FRANCISCO   The Latest on Spotify\'s Wall Street debut (all times local):11:15 a.m.Spotify is hovering around $29 billion in market value on its first day of trading as the streaming music service hopes to gain ground in a growing industry.The company\'s key competitor, Pandora, is worth about $1.2 billion, based on trading Tuesday.Spotify has been compared to streaming entertainment service Netflix for its growth potential. Netflix is worth about $122 billion.___9:50 a.m.Spotify debuts on the market with a boom, opening at $165.90 in an unusual "direct listing."The shares quickly wobbled in their first hour of trading, though remain well above the NYSE\'s reference price of $132.___8:20 a.m.The market is still awaiting Spotify\'s highly anticipated public debut as the streaming music service goes through with its unusual "direct listing".The NYSE had set a reference price of $132 for the stock, though the actual price will be determined by shareholders. The Swedish company\'s use of a "direct listing" allows its early investors and employees to sell as many shares as they want whenever they want.The company has traded between $48.93 and $132 over the last 12 months through private transactions, and indications Tuesday showed it could trade as high as $155.The company, with more than 71 million subscribers, is not raising any money through the IPO.
LONDON   The company that makes British passports will challenge the decision to use a foreign firm in future, a government decision that some eurosceptics in the tabloid press have called unpatriotic.Prime Minister Theresa May announced post-Brexit Britain would change its passports from burgundy to blue - closer to how they looked before the colour of EU passports was harmonised in 1988 - in "an expression of our independence and sovereignty".But reports that Franco-Dutch firm Gemalto, rather than Britain\'s De La Rue Plc, had won the tender to produce them angered some Britons and the Daily Mail said more than 270,000 people had signed its petition demanding the contract go to a British company.Gemalto, which already produces British driving licenses, has not confirmed or denied it won the contract, but De La Rue has publically criticised the decision to use a foreign firm.It said it would seek a judicial review of the tender decision as it believes it made "the highest quality and technically most secure bid."The Daily Mail applauded De La Rue for "coming out fighting" and urged the government to "put security and patriotism first" by reversing its decision.A spokesman for May said the standstill period - between a contract being awarded and its final conclusion - had been extended due to De La Rue\'s request, but the government had not changed its stance."This has been a rigorous, fair and open competition. The preferred bidder demonstrated they are best able to meet the needs of the passport service," he said.The passport issue has proved uncomfortable for May as she fends off accusation from hardliners in her own party that she will settle for a "soft" Brexit deal that could leave Britain still confined by many EU rules, which include open competition for public contracts.Anti-Brexit figures have pointed out that Britain had never been obliged to make its passports burgundy and that one EU member, Croatia, already has blue passports. And, in an April Fools joke, the European Parliament tweeted on Sunday that the EU had decided to make all EU passports blue.De La Rue\'s contract, which ends in July 2019, is worth 400 million pounds. The new contract will start in October 2019, after Britain leaves the EU in March.Shares in De La Rue were little changed on Tuesday, having fallen 6 percent when it said it had lost the contract in March.Britain\'s biggest trade union Unite said it supported De La Rue\'s legal challenge as it was concerned about manufacturing jobs.(Reporting by Alistair Smout; Editing by Guy Faulconbridge and Robin Pomeroy)
DUBAI/GENEVA   Yemen\'s Houthi group hit a Saudi oil tanker off the main port city of Hodeidah on Tuesday, the Saudi-led coalition said, in an attack that could complicate a new United Nations push to end a war that has killed more than 10,000 people.The Iranian-aligned Houthis said they had targeted a coalition warship in response to an air strike on Hodeidah on Monday that killed at least a dozen civilians, including seven children.Tensions have been rising in recent days after the Houthis, who control most of northern Yemen, launched a series of missile strikes on Saudi Arabia, including the capital Riyadh, in recent days.In a statement carried by Saudi media, the coalition said the oil tanker was in international waters when it came under "Houthi-Iranian attack" at around 1330 local time (1030 GMT).A coalition warship conducted a "swift intervention" foiling the attack, it said, without identifying the type of weapon used in the assault. "As a result of that attack, the tanker was subjected to a slight but ineffective hit and it resumed its naval course northwards, escorted by a coalition warship," the statement said.A European Union naval force that operates in the region confirmed the ship was underway, adding that the crew were safe and unharmed.The media department of the Houthi-run Yemeni military said naval forces had "targeted a battleship belonging to the coalition in response to the bombardment of displaced people in Hodeidah". It gave no further details.The department\'s text message was referring to an air strike by the Saudi-led coalition on Monday in Houthi-controlled Hodeidah that destroyed a house and killed 12 civilians from the same family, including seven children.A coalition spokesman said the alliance takes the report very seriously, promising a full investigation.Last week, Saudi air defences intercepted a flurry of missiles, and falling debris caused the first death in the capital Riyadh.Saudi Arabia accuses Iran of supplying missiles to the Houthis, who have taken over the Yemeni capital Sanaa and other parts of the country. Tehran and the Houthis deny the charge.CALL FOR ENDING WAREarlier on Tuesday, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged the warring sides in Yemen to reach a political settlement to end a conflict now in its fourth year that has left 22 million people in urgent need of aid.Speaking in Geneva on the sidelines of a U.N. pledging conference for Yemen, Guterres said his Special Envoy Martin Griffiths will head to the United Arab Emirates, Oman and the Yemeni government-held city of Aden in the drive for peace, Guterres told reporters.Griffiths has already held talks with Houthi authorities as well as internationally-recognised Yemeni President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi and Saudi officials in Riyadh.Guterres said he saw "positive perspectives" for preparing a plan of action "to lead to an effective inter-Yemeni dialogue able to achieve a political solution, with of course the involvement of all those that are relevant in this conflict"."I am optimistic about that possibility," the United Nations chief added.He announced that more than $2 billion has been pledged towards a U.N. humanitarian appeal of $3 billion for Yemen this year. It includes $930 million from Saudi Arabia and the UAE which lead the coalition air strikes.Yemeni Foreign Minister Abdel-Malek al-Mekhlafi called for a return to the negotiating table to end the war in the Arabian peninsula\'s poorest country and said his government was working to open blockaded ports and airports to aid.(Reporting by Sami Aboudi; Additional reporting by Stephanie Nebehay and Jonathan Saul; Editing by Catherine Evans and David Stamp)
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO   Shares of Spotify Technology SA ended up 12.9 percent on their first day of trade on the New York Stock Exchange, a smooth debut that could pave the way for other companies looking to go public without the aid of Wall Street underwriters.Spotify shares opened at $165.90, up nearly 26 percent from a reference price of $132 set by the NYSE late on Monday. The stock ended the session at $149.01, valuing the world\'s largest streaming music service at $26.5 billion.The direct listing was seen as a test case for other companies tempted to list without selling new shares, and for bankers that could lose out on millions of dollars in underwriting fees for future initial public offerings."It\'s a fair market price. It\'s not manipulated or set by any puts and takes by banks or institutional investors," said Chi-Hua Chien, an early investor in Spotify who is now at San Mateo, California-based venture capital firm Goodwater Capital.Some market-watchers cautioned investors not to read too much into the first day of trading, given the mixed performance of recent tech IPOs and an increasingly competitive music streaming landscape.HEMORRHAGING COSTSThe direct listing by the Stockholm-founded company was the largest on record. Spotify now has a higher market value than Snapchat owner Snap Inc, which went public last year. Facebook Inc and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd remain the largest tech stock listings in recent years.Since launching its service a decade ago, Spotify has overcome resistance from big record labels and some major music artists to transform how people listen to music. But it still does not make a profit and faces intense competition from Apple Inc and others."Investors are right to have some reservations. Spotify is  from the costs of licensing content," said Michael Carvin, chief executive of personal finance technology firm SmartAsset. "Even though Spotifys scale is about twice that of Apple Music, Apple has a huge ecosystem of products to market to."Spotify has 71 million so-called premium subscribers, including users who have given the company a credit card number for a free trial. On a comparable basis the Apple Music service has 46 million subscribers.Amazon Music Unlimited has an estimated 16 million paying subscribers and Pandora has 5.48 million total subscribers. Alphabet Inc\'s Google does not release paid subscriber numbers for Google Play Music.HEAVY TRADEAfter the listing, Spotify has an enterprise value - which takes into account cash and debt on the company\'s balance sheet - of about five times its 2017 revenue of $5 billion.That represents a premium to smaller rival Pandora Media Inc, which has an enterprise value-to-sales ratio of one, but is far less than a comparable ratio above 10 for Netflix Inc and Dropbox Inc.Analysts had worried ahead of Spotify\'s direct listing that forgoing underwriters and traditional promotional events designed to stimulate interest from institutional investors could mean volatility once formal trading kicked off.The NYSE set Spotify\'s reference price late on Monday to be in line with informal, private trading of Spotify shares, giving an early estimate of the level at which supply and demand could be balanced.The opening public price was determined by buy and sell orders collected by the NYSE from broker-dealers and a designated market maker\'s determination of where buy orders could be matched with sell orders.Nearly 30 million shares had changed hands by the end of regular trading hours. Some 91 percent of Spotify\'s 178 million shares were tradable, a much higher percentage than typical in a traditional IPO.While Chief Executive Daniel Ek skipped NYSE rituals such as opening bell-ringing and trading floor interviews to tout the stock, the front of the 115-year-old Greek Revival exchange building was draped in a vast green-and-black Spotify banner.The only visible hiccup came when the NYSE also briefly flew a Swiss flag in honor of the Swedish company, which the NYSE later described on Twitter as a "momentary ode to our neutral role in the process of price discovery."(Additional reporting by Eric Auchard in London, Helena Soderpalm in Stockholm, Joshua Franklin in New York and Stephen Nellis and Salvador Rodriguez in San Francisco; Writing by Meredith Mazzilli; Editing by Bill Rigby)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump and immigration (all times local):2:30 p.m.President Donald Trump says the U.S. has "horrible" and "very unsafe" immigration laws, and he is calling on Congress to "get their act together" to change them.Trump says during a joint press conference with the leaders of the Baltic nations that, "we don\'t have laws. We have catch and release."Trump also says he spoke with Mexico and warned them to halt a caravan of mostly Honduran migrants traveling through the country. Trump has threatened to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement if Mexico doesn\'t comply.Trump announced earlier Tuesday that he\'s preparing to use the military to secure the country\'s southern border until the wall he wants built is constructed.The White House later said Trump wants to mobilize the National Guard.___12:20 p.m.President Donald Trump says he wants to use the military to secure the U.S.-Mexico border until his promised wall is built.Trump says during a lunch with Baltic leaders that he\'s spoken with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis about the idea.He says, "We\'re going to be doing things militarily until we can have a wall and proper security."He\'s calling it a "big step."Trump begrudgingly signed a spending bill last month that provided far less money for the wall than he wanted.He\'s been complaining that U.S. borders are too porous and its immigration laws are too weak.___12:20 a.m.Trump administration officials say they\'re crafting a new legislative package aimed at closing immigration "loopholes" following the president\'s calls for Republican lawmakers to immediately pass a border bill.In one of his many tweets Monday, Trump wrote, "Honduras, Mexico and many other countries that the U.S. is very generous to, sends many of their people to our country through our WEAK IMMIGRATION POLICIES." In another, he wrote in all caps, "ACT CONGRESS!"Trump has been seething over immigration since realizing the major spending bill he signed last month barely funds the "big, beautiful" border wall he has promised his supporters.Among the measures the administration is pursuing is ending special safeguards that prevent the immediate deportation of children arrested at the border and traveling alone.
MATIAS ROMERO, Mexico   Mexican officials on Tuesday screened a dwindling group of hundreds of largely Central American migrants who are moving through Mexico toward the United States, seeking to break up the "caravan" that has drawn the ire of U.S. President Donald Trump.Trump, doubling down on his tough stance against illegal immigration, has railed against those making their way from the Guatemala-Mexico border in the past 10 days.Trump repeated threats to torpedo the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which underpins much of Mexico\'s foreign trade, and said he wanted to send troops to the U.S. border to stop illegal immigrants until a long-promised border wall is built.In response, the Mexican government has said the migrants  are being vetted to determine whether they have a right to stay, or would be returned to their countries of origin.Hundreds of men, women and children from Central America were stuck on Tuesday in the town of Matias Romero in the poor southern Mexican state of Oaxaca awaiting clarification of their legal status after officials began registering them.Confused and frustrated by paperwork, many were uncertain what lay in store, and desperate for information."What was the point of all this then if they don\'t let us stay?" Elizabeth Avalos, 23, a migrant from El Salvador who was travelling with two children, said angrily. "There\'s no food, my children haven\'t eaten since yesterday."Hundreds of people camped out overnight in a park near the town\'s train station, with shoes and bags strewn about.Jaime Alexander Variega, 35, sat alone in a patch of shade and cupped his head in his hands, weeping or praying, his feet  still bearing lacerations from walking for four or five days straight through Guatemala from El Salvador."We\'re not safe in El Salvador," said the former security guard, his hat smeared in dirt, explaining he had left his home because of the threats from local gangs. "I know it\'s difficult to get into the United States. But it\'s not impossible."Around them, Mexican migration officials with notepads and pens took basic information from the migrants, asking for names, nationalities, dates of birth and proof of identity.The caravan was organised by U.S-based advocacy group Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which seeks to draw attention to the rights of migrants and provide them with aid. The Mexican government says the caravan, which like others travels by road, rail and on foot, has been organised every year since 2010.Honduran Carlos Ricardo Ellis Garcia clutched a handwritten list of names belonging to more than 100 people who joined the caravan in the southern border town of Tapachula, where it began on March 25, reaching a peak of around 1,500 people.But by Tuesday the number was down to about 1,100, according to Pueblo Sin Fronteras spokeswoman Gina Garibo.Many had broken off from the group, eager to move on more quickly, she said. Many others aimed to stay in Mexico because they had family ties there or planned to work, Garibo said."Now they\'re separating these groups," Ellis Garcia said, referring to an estimated 300 people who split from the caravan on Monday. "I don\'t know what\'s the deal, we have no answers."Advocacy groups told Reuters dozens of people left the caravan and travelled to the crime-ridden eastern state of Veracruz, where they were met by migration officials and police.The government said on Monday evening around 400 people in the caravan had already been sent back to their home countries.Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico\'s ambassador to the United States, told CNN that Mexican authorities were "looking at the status of the individuals so we can proceed either with a repatriation process" or offer humanitarian relief. That could include granting asylum or humanitarian visas.Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala are among the most violent and impoverished countries in the Americas, prompting many people to leave in search of a better life.Trump, who ran for office in 2016 on a platform to stem illegal immigrants from Mexico, said he had "told Mexico" he hoped it would halt the caravan.The migrant caravan also poses a political problem for Mexico\'s unpopular government in a presidential election year.President Enrique Pena Nieto is barred by law from seeking re-election in the July 1 vote, but the ruling party candidate is running third, well behind the front-runner.The government does not want to be seen as kowtowing to threats by Trump, who is deeply unpopular in Mexico.In a country where millions of people have friends or relatives who have migrated legally or illegally to the United States, many Mexicans harbour sympathy for the Central Americans.(Reporting by Delphine Schrank; Additional reporting by Lizbeth Diaz, Diego Ore and Daina Solomon; Editing by Dave Graham and Grant McCool)
UNITED NATIONS   Mostly Christian militia fighters attacked a U.N. peacekeeping base in the Central African Republic early Tuesday, and one peacekeeper from Mauritania was killed and 11 others were injured in a gunbattle that lasted several hours, the United Nations said.U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said the attack by the anti-Balaka militias took place at a temporary U.N. peacekeeping base in Tagbara, about 60 miles northeast of the central mining town of Bambari. The peacekeeping mission said more than 22 anti-Balaka fighters died in the clash.Dujarric said the U.N. peacekeeping mission sent reinforcements to the base, and he strongly condemned the attack.The U.N. Security Council condemned the attack "in the strongest terms" and reiterated that attacks against peacekeepers may constitute war crimes. Its members called on the Central African Republic government to swiftly investigate the attack and bring the perpetrators to justice.Separately, Dujarric said, the U.N. mission reported that later Tuesday morning peacekeepers discovered the bodies of 21 civilians, including four women and four children, in Tagbara. The mission said the bodies were found near a church, and the victims had been killed with "traditional weapons."The Security Council said it supports an investigation by the U.N. peacekeeping mission to see if the civilian casualties are linked to the attack against the Tagbara base.Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the attack on peacekeepers and is "outraged" at the killing of the 21 civilians and injuries to 14 other civilians, Dujarric said."The secretary-general calls on the Central African Republic authorities to investigate these attacks and quickly bring those responsible to justice," he said.In another incident, Dujarric said U.N. peacekeepers were informed Monday evening that a rebel group known as the UPC had detained 23 people in Tagbara, including 13 women, seven men and three children. He said they were released peacefully to U.N. peacekeepers and spent the night at the temporary base to ensure their safety.The U.N. mission condemned the attacks on civilians and said that "nothing can justify these acts that can be considered war crimes."It said an investigation will be carried out that "leaves no possibility for impunity."Elsewhere, Dujarric said, U.N. peacekeepers and Central African Republic forces launched a joint operation on Saturday and rescued 15 people who had been taken hostage by the Lord\'s Resistance Army rebel group led by Joseph Kony, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes.The LRA has wreaked havoc in central Africa over the years in violent rampages that include the abduction of children. It has taken boys who are then forced to become fighters and girls who become sex slaves, one of the reasons the group has gained international attention in recent times.The Central African Republic has faced deadly interreligious and intercommunal fighting since 2013, when predominantly Muslim Seleka rebels seized power in the capital, Bangui. Mostly Christian anti-Balaka militias fought back, resulting in thousands of people killed and hundreds of thousands displaced.The impoverished country saw a period of relative peace in late 2015 and 2016 but violence has intensified and spread in the past year.
DETROIT   U.S. auto sales grew 6.3 percent in March on rising sales of SUVs and pickup trucks.Automakers sold more than 1.6 million vehicles for the month as buyers came out of hibernation after a cold, snowy winter in much of the countryTruck and SUV sales rose 16.3 percent while car sales plunged 9.2 percent, according to Autodata Corp. Nearly two-thirds of all vehicles sold were trucks or SUVs.Jeff Schuster, a senior vice president at the forecasting firm LMC Automotive, said the strong month was a good recovery from a lackluster start to the year, but much uncertainty remains over politics, potential trade wars and a volatile stock market."All in all, it looks like consumers are starting to get used to the noise," said Schuster, who added that the strong March won\'t cause him to change his full-year sales prediction of just under 17 million, down 1.4 percent from last year.Monthly sales reports may become a thing of the past if other automakers follow General Motors. The company announced Tuesday that after March, it would stop reporting monthly sales in favor of quarterly numbers.Here\'s how individual automakers fared in dealer showrooms last month: General Motors posted the biggest sales increase at 15.7 percent to 296,138 vehicles. It was led by the Buick brand with a 28 percent increase. Fiat Chrysler reported almost a 13.6 percent increase to 216,063 vehicles. It was led by a 45 percent increase in sales of the all-SUV Jeep brand. Ford said its sales rose 3.5 percent to 243,021. Ford brand sales were up 3.7 percent. Toyota sales also went up 3.5 percent to 222,782, led by Toyota brand sales, which rose 4.5 percent. Nissan reported a 3.7 percent sales decline to 162,535. Nissan brand sales dropped 3.6 percent. Honda reported a 3.8 percent increase to 142,392. It was led by the Acura luxury brand, which saw a 15.7 percent increase. Hyundai sales were off 11 percent to 61,540 as the car-heavy Korean brand struggled in a market that\'s shifting to SUVs. Volkswagen sales were up 13.5 percent to 52,992 as new SUVs helped it continue to recover from a diesel engine emissions cheating scandal.
PHOENIX   The jury in the trial of a U.S. Border Patrol agent charged in the fatal shooting of a teen across the Mexican border was taken to the scene after dark to observe conditions as they may have existed at the time.Court documents made public Monday show that the jurors in the trial of agent Lonnie Swartz visited the area of the border fence in Nogales, Arizona, on Thursday night. Prosecutors have charged Swartz with second-degree murder in the death of 16-year-old Jose Antonio Elena Rodriguez. They say Swartz fired 16 shots, hitting the teen 10 times; eight times in the back.Swartz has said he fired in self-defense in response to people throwing rocks from the Mexico side of the border during a drug smuggling attempt. The U.S. attorney\'s office does not dispute that the boy was throwing rocks, but contends Swartz responded with an unreasonable amount of force.Defense attorneys requested the jury visit to the border at night, saying "the unique characteristics of the location are central to the story of the case.""The fence itself is unique because of its nature as an international boundary, its physical security features, and the topography of the specific locations at issue," defense attorney Sean Chapman wrote in a request to the court. "The density of vegetation in the area, the buildings and the narrow streets of Nogales, Sonora and Nogales, Arizona are particularly relevant."The documents released Monday did not spell out details of the visit other than it lasted almost five hours.According to another new document, District Judge Raner C. Collins told jurors to submit in writing any questions they have about the border visit.Since the trial began last month, much of the testimony has focused on whether Elena Rodriguez was still alive after Swartz fired his first few shots through the metal bollards of the fence.Prosecutors have said the youth was wounded but still alive when Swartz moved along the fence and fired most of the bullets. The defense has argued that Elena Rodriguez died from one of the first shots fired.Mexican officials, including pathologists, were testifying this week.Prosecutors say Swartz opened fire at about 11:30 p.m. in October 2012, shooting through metal poles of a 20-foot (6-meter) fence that sits on a 25-foot (about 7.6-meter) embankment above Mexico\'s Calle Internacional, a street lined with homes and small businesses.About 20,000 people live on the Arizona side and about 300,000 live on the Mexico side, but the two communities linked by family members, trade and culture have long been referred to locally as "Ambos Nogales"  "Both Nogales" in Spanish.Swartz is on administrative leave and free on his own recognizance, but the Border Patrol has not said if he is continuing to receive his salary.
NEW YORK   Investors raised their bets against Tesla Inc shares by 10 percent since mid-March on the view that the market was too optimistic on the electric car maker\'s prospects, financial analytics firm S3 Partners said on Tuesday.Tesla shares sold short now stand at 31.5 million, or 25 percent of freely available shares, S3 Partners said. Short-sellers aim to profit by selling borrowed shares in the hope of buying them back later at a lower price.Pressure has been building on Tesla to show it can churn out its less-expensive Model 3 sedans without raising more cash. A fatal Tesla Model X car crash in California on March 23 also pressured share prices as well as the company\'s options and debt-market rating."This is a once-in-a-lifetime short," said Peter DeCaprio, partner at Crow Point Partners LLC."It\'s like the perfect storm of elements that you need in a short thesis. Usually you try to find three or four good ones, this has got 15. It\'s everything. But everything is magnified because of the valuation."Tesla on Tuesday sought to quash any speculation it might need to raise more capital this year and also announced it built 2,020 of its Model 3 sedans in the last seven days.Tesla\'s battered shares rose 6.7 percent to trade at $269.42 on Tuesday afternoon, still well below the 12-month peak of $389 last September. The company did not respond to a request for comment.Billionaire investor David Einhorn, who has been betting for months that Tesla\'s stock price will fall, did not mention the carmaker by name in his quarterly letter to clients on Tuesday.Tesla is part of Einhorn\'s so-called bubble basket, which also includes bets against Amazon.com Inc and Netflix Inc. While conventional wisdom suggests recent turbulence in these stocks could have benefited short-sellers like Einhorn\'s Greenlight Capital Inc, Einhorn said the shorts did not perform as he hoped this year.DeCaprio called Tesla\'s production numbers "irrelevant" to him because the company has not proven it can "build a car without incinerating boatloads of cash in the process."JPMorgan Chase & Co strategists said in a note that the options market is underpricing Tesla risks and the shares "may be unable to escape a continued sell-off as a confluence of unfortunate events may seal its fate" regardless of production results.Short-seller Jim Chanos of Kynikos Associates LP told Reuters in November he continued to add to his short position in Tesla throughout 2017.(Reporting by Jennifer Ablan and Trevor Hunnicutt in New York; Additional reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss in Boston and Saqib Iqbal Ahmed in New York; Editing by Matthew Lewis and David Gregorio)
HONG KONG   Asian stock markets were mixed in early trading Wednesday as investors pondered the latest volley of tariff measures and threats between the U.S. and China.KEEPING SCORE: Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 dipped 0.1 percent to 21,271.03 and South Korea\'s Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 2,432.83. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng edged 0.1 percent higher to 30,198.18 and the Shanghai Composite added 0.6 percent to 3,154.88. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 edged 0.1 percent lower to 5,745.60. Shares fell in Singapore.TARIFF TENSIONS: In the latest salvo escalating the U.S.-China trade dispute, the Trump administration proposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion worth of imports from China to protest Beijing\'s alleged theft of U.S. technology. China\'s Commerce Ministry responded quickly to the announcement, which came after U.S. trading ended, by vowing to retaliate with measures of equal strength to be announced soon. Earlier this week, China rocked world markets when it said it would impose tariffs on a small number of imports from the U.S. but this time the reaction in Asia appeared more measured.INVESTOR INSIGHT: "The much-anticipated U.S. tariffs list finally saw the light of day and would be one for markets to digest in today\'s session," said Jingyi Pan, market strategist at IG. "China\'s response following the release had provided little fresh insights as the market had been well aware that retaliation steps are expected to follow." Pan noted that investors in mainland China may be extra cautious as they head into a long weekend starting Thursday.WALL STREET: Major U.S. benchmarks ended higher after a late rally. The S&P 500 index rose 1.3 percent to 2,614.45. It dropped 2.2 percent a day earlier. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.6 percent to 24,033.36. The Nasdaq composite climbed 1 percent to 6,941.28.CURRENCIES: The dollar slipped to 106.49 yen from 106.62 yen in late trading Tuesday. The euro rose to $1.2283 from $1.2272.ENERGY: Oil\'s rally fizzled. A barrel of U.S. crude lost 18 cents to $63.33 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract gained 50 cents to settle at $63.51 on Tuesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 21 cents to $67.91 a barrel in London.

BEIJING   Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told North Korea\'s foreign minister on Tuesday that Beijing supports the North\'s planned summits with South Korea and the United States.The Foreign Ministry cited Wang, China\'s state councilor and foreign minister, as telling Ri Yong Ho at a meeting in Beijing that China appreciates North Korea\'s efforts to ease tensions on the Korean Peninsula.The ministry described Ri as saying that North Korea would maintain close strategic communications with China as outlined at last week\'s surprise meeting between Chinese leader Xi Jinping and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Jong Un. Kim\'s visit to China made clear that Beijing, North Korea\'s only major ally and chief provider of energy and trade that keeps the country\'s broken economy afloat, will have a major role in any effort to rein in the North\'s nuclear program.Earlier Tuesday, Wang told reporters that China hopes a planned meeting between North Korea and the U.S. would be able to avoid "disruptive factors" and stick to the pursuit of dialogue between Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump."Of course, historical experience tells us that when there is an easing in the situation on the peninsula and hopes for peace and dialogue appear, there will often be disturbances of this or that kind," Wang said at a briefing with reporters following a meeting with Swiss Foreign Minister Ignazio Cassis. "We call on all parties to maintain their determination, eliminate interference, and go along in the right direction of dialogue and negotiation."North Korea\'s official Korean Central News Agency said Ri led a government delegation that left Pyongyang, the North\'s capital, on Tuesday to take part in a ministerial meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement to be held in Azerbaijan and visit Russia.The meetings between China and North Korea appear aimed at improving both countries\' positions ahead of Kim\'s anticipated meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in and Trump in the coming weeks.A key objective for Beijing is to reassert its relevance to the talks, from which it has been excluded. China has appeared increasingly shut out as its relations with North Korea deteriorated and the North reached out to Seoul and Washington.Ties in recent months have frayed as China supported tougher U.N. sanctions on North Korea and suspended coal and iron ore imports. Last year, North Korea seemingly sought to humiliate Beijing by timing some of its missile tests to coincide with major global summits in China.
GENEVA   U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged the warring sides in Yemen on Tuesday to reach a political settlement to end a conflict that is now in its fourth year and has left 22 million people in urgent need of aid.His Special Envoy Martin Griffiths will head to the United Arab Emirates, Oman and the Yemeni government-held city of Aden in the drive for peace, Guterres told reporters.Griffiths has already held talks with both sides in a war that has drawn in regional powers, meeting Houthi authorities who hold the capital Sanaa as well as internationally-recognized Yemeni President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi and Saudi officials in Riyadh.Guterres said he saw "positive perspectives" for preparing a plan of action "to lead to an effective inter-Yemeni dialogue able to achieve a political solution, with of course the involvement of all those that are relevant in this conflict"."I am optimistic about that possibility," the United Nations chief added.The war has killed more than 10,000 people, displaced more than 2 million and driven the country to the verge of famine.Guterres was speaking on the sidelines of a U.N. pledging conference a day after an air strike by the Saudi-led coalition that supports Hadi\'s government killed 12 civilians in the coastal city of Hodeidah. Houthi forces later targeted Saudi Arabia\'s southern border area with a missile.He announced that more than $2 billion has been pledged toward a U.N. humanitarian appeal of $3 billion for Yemen this year. It includes $930 million from Saudi Arabia and the UAE, which lead the coalition air strikes.When the Houthis fired missiles at Riyadh last November, the Western-backed coalition responded by shutting Yemen\'s airports and ports. The United Nations said that blockade raised the danger of mass starvation and it was partially lifted.Guterres told the conference: "All ports must remain open to humanitarian and commercial cargo, the medicines, food and the fuel needed to deliver them."Most humanitarian aid enters through Hodeidah but the government accuses Houthis who control the port of smuggling weapons through it.Yemeni Foreign Minister Abdel-Malek al-Mekhlafi called for a return to the negotiating table and said that his government was working to open ports and airports to aid."We need to find the ideal solution which is a return to the talks table, to put an end the war, to return to a sustainable system supported by the people of Yemen," he said.The U.N.\'s World Food Programme is providing food rations to 7 million Yemenis, up from 3 million last year, Elisabeth Rasmussen, WFP assistant executive director, told the talks.But Dr. Nevio Zagaria, the World Health Organization (WHO) representative in Yemen, said that child malnutrition rates are rising. About 1.8 million children under age five are acutely malnourished while 400,000 suffer from severe acute malnutrition, which can be deadly."In Hajjah, I saw a baby weighing 2.6 kilos (5.7 pounds) who was six months old. Its twin died the week before," Zagaria told Reuters.After more than one million Yemenis were found with apparent cholera last year, WHO is shipping vaccines to avoid a repeat of the epidemic that killed 2,267 people, he said. Some 1.4 million doses out of 4.4 million planned are on their way via Nairobi."The rainy season is starting, so we need to use the window of opportunity to start a vaccination campaign," he said.(Reporting and writing by Stephanie Nebehay; additional reporting by Sami Aboudi in Dubai; editing by John Stonestreet and David Stamp/Mark Heinrich)
WASHINGTON   The Latest on President Donald Trump\'s meetings with the leaders of Baltic states (all times local):2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump says the U.S. remains a steadfast ally to the three Baltic nations and is pointing to his push for NATO members to increase their defense spending.Trump is joining the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania at the White House for a joint news conference. He says the Baltics "can trust the United States will remain a strong, proud and loyal friend and ally."Trump is praising the three NATO members for boosting their defense spending and says their "commitment to burden sharing" is an example for other nations to follow.The Baltic leaders are pointing to their security commitments. Lithuania\'s Dalia Grybauskaite says the Article 5 collective defense under NATO is "iron-clad for all of us."Estonia\'s Kersti Kaljulaid says the countries are "an axis of good."___12:35 p.m.President Donald Trump is telling the leaders of the three Baltic countries that no one has been tougher on Russia and says he\'s been pressing NATO members to increase their defense spending.Trump is telling the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania that "getting along with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing." Asked by a reporter if Vladimir Putin is a friend or a foe, Trump says, "We\'ll find out. I\'ll let you know."The president is pointing to his push for NATO members to boost their defense spending.The meeting comes as the White House has raised the possibility of Trump welcoming Putin to the White House. The Baltic states are seen as a bulwark against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe.___12 p.m.The leaders of the Baltic countries have arrived at the White House for talks with President Donald Trump.Trump\'s meeting Tuesday with the presidents of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania comes a day after the White House dangled the prospect of extending a similar welcome to Russia\'s Vladimir Putin. The Baltic states are seen as a bulwark against Russian aggression in Eastern Europe.Britain recently blamed Russia for the nerve-agent poisoning of a former Russian spy on British soil. Trump joined Britain in expelling scores of Russian diplomats in response.The leaders are expected to discuss security, business, trade and energy issues during a visit that also highlights 100 years of Baltic independence.Trump and the three presidents are scheduled to answer journalists\' questions at a news conference after the talks.
TOKYO   Corporate Japan expects to see only minimal inflation in a year and barely any change in the next three to five years, a central bank survey showed on Tuesday, highlighting yet again the difficulty the Bank of Japan faces in reaching its elusive 2 percent inflation target.Companies surveyed by the Bank of Japan expect consumer prices to have risen 0.8 percent a year from now, unchanged from their projection three months ago.Firms also expect consumer prices to have risen by an annual 1.1 percent three years from now and 1.1 percent five years ahead, also unchanged from three months ago,The BOJ deployed a massive stimulus programme in 2013 in the hope of shocking consumers out of their deflationary mindset and boosting corporate and household inflation expectations.After failing to make much headway on price growth, the BOJ revamped its policy framework in 2016 to one better suited to a long-term battle against deflation, although its results have been modest.Japan's economy has expanded for eight quarters, the longest continuous expansion since a 12-quarter stretch of growth between April-June 1986 and January-March 1989 around the height of Japan's economic bubble.But this record run of growth has been slow to translate into higher consumer prices.The nationwide core consumer price index, which includes oil products but excludes volatile fresh food costs, rose 1.0 percent in February from a year earlier, matching the median estimate, data last week showed.However, a narrower measure of consumer prices that excludes fresh food and energy rose an annual 0.5 percent in February, highlighting the snail's pace of underlying inflation.The tankan surveys will be among factors for the BOJ board to scrutinise when it meets for a two-day rate review ending on April 27.The meeting will be the first to include the BOJ's two new deputy governors. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe appointed Masazumi Wakatabe, an academic known as vocal advocate of aggressive monetary stimulus, to one of the posts.Masayoshi Amamiya, a career central banker, was appointed two the second deputy governor post.Governor Haruhiko Kuroda was reappointed, which suggests the BOJ will maintain policy continuity.However, there is some uncertainty over whether Wakatabe's appointment will shift the policy board towards additional easing given the difficulty in meeting the central bank's price target.The inflation expectations come after Monday's BOJ tankan survey of business confidence showed big manufacturers' sentiment worsened for the first time in two years on worries about a rising yen and trade friction with the United States.(Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Eric Meijer)
BERLIN   Germany\'s Lutheran church said Tuesday that a swastika has been removed from a church bell in a small northwestern town, following a local controversy over the Nazi symbol.The pastor for the church in Schweringen informed officials on Thursday he had discovered that the symbol engraved on the bell was removed along with part of a Nazi-era inscription, the church\'s branch in Hannover said. The church said a note claiming responsibility was found on the church door, but didn\'t provide details.Local newspaper Die Harke published a picture of the note, headed: "Spring cleaning 2018." It said "it was time for spring cleaning to bring fresh air to the village."The church suspended the use of the bell last year after the swastika was found, but local church officials decided in mid-March to put it back in use. That move, and a decision not to replace the bell, was contested by the pastor and his objections were still under consideration.The church said it will now consider how to proceed and whether to take any legal action.Bells with swastikas were widespread during the Nazi era but most were removed after World War II. In a separate case in February, a small town in southwestern Germany decided to keep a bell dedicated to Adolf Hitler ringing as a memorial to spark dialogue about violence and injustice.
UNITED NATIONS   Christian militias stormed a U.N. base in southern Central Africa Republic early on Monday, killing one peacekeeper and wounding 11, the United Nations said.At around 5 a.m. (0400 GMT), armed anti-balaka militants attacked the base in Tagbara, about 300 km (190 miles) northeast of the capital Bangui, a U.N. statement said.The ensuing gunfight lasted hours, and 22 anti-balaka were also killed, the statement said.Later in the morning, peacekeepers discovered 21 dead civilians, including four children, near a church in Tagbara. It was not immediately clear who was responsible for those deaths."Nothing can justify such acts that can be considered war crimes," the statement said. "An investigation will be conducted and will leave no room for impunity."Central African Republic was torn apart after mainly Muslim Seleka rebels ousted president Francois Bozize in 2013, provoking retaliation killings by the anti-balaka.A 12,000-strong U.N. peacekeeping mission has struggled to restore order to the countryside where attacks on civilians are frequent. The U.N. Security Council approved an extra 900 peacekeepers in November to help to protect civilians.The mission has become a deadly one: more than a dozen U.N. peacekeepers were killed there last year.(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; Writing by Edward McAllister; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration is postponing until September a summit with Gulf Arab leaders that had been planned for this spring amid an ongoing dispute between Qatar and other U.S. allies in the region, according to five U.S. officials.The decision to delay the May summit with the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council reflects a crowded diplomatic calendar, and the fact that President Donald Trump is without a secretary of state until the Senate confirms current CIA Director Mike Pompeo, two of the officials said.Other sources, however, told Reuters the delay is also a nod to the fact that Washington has made little progress so far in ending the bitter standoff between Qatar and other Gulf nations, particularly Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.The dispute pits key U.S. allies against each other, and has complicated efforts to maintain a united front against Iran. So far, though, it has not affected the U.S. air base in Qatar that supports attacks on Islamic extremists and surveillance of Iran -- both of which the Saudis and Emiratis support."This was entirely our decision," one U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said of the delay."We have too many irons in the fire in May," the official added, noting that Trump may be meeting North Korean leader Kim Jong Un next month, and that Pompeo has yet to be confirmed to replace Rex Tillerson.A spokeswoman for the White House National Security Council said the delay was not tied to the tensions over Qatar, adding that, "President Trump is committed to resolving the Gulf dispute this month."Trump met with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the White House on March 21. He is due to meet with Qatari Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani next week, followed by a meeting with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed.Trump spoke by phone with al Thani on Tuesday and with Saudi King Salman on Monday, emphasizing to each the importance of resolving the Gulf dispute, the White House said.Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut off travel and trade ties with Qatar last June, accusing it of backing their archrival, Iran, and supporting terrorism. Qatar denies the charges and says the boycott is an attempt to impinge on its sovereignty and rein in its support for reform.A senior U.S. official said the summit was discussed during Salman\'s Washington visit, and there was agreement that it would be better to delay the meeting until after the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which ends in mid-June."We\'ll see what transpires between now and then, but based on the discussions to date, it is hard to be optimistic about a rapprochement" between Qatar and its neighbours, he said.However, two officials involved in the discussions said there recently have been signs of flexibility, including from Saudi Arabia."I think it makes sense (to delay the summit) as there seems to be movement on the beginning of a dialogue and more time to let it develop would be helpful," one said.(Additional reporting by John Walcott and Lesley Wroughton; editing by John Walcott and Jonathan Oatis)
SYDNEY   Australia\'s central bank left interest rates at record lows on Tuesday, the longest stretch without a change in almost three decades, and looked set to extend this period of "masterful inaction" for some time yet.As widely expected, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) ended its April policy meeting with the benchmark rate at 1.5 percent, where it has been since a cut in August 2016. The run of 20 months without a move is the longest since the cash rate was first introduced in 1990."Inflation is likely to remain low for some time, reflecting low growth in labour costs and strong competition in retailing," said RBA Governor Philip Lowe in a brief statement."Further progress in reducing unemployment and having inflation return to target is expected, although this progress is likely to be gradual."Lowe has repeatedly emphasised that the central bank\'s board sees no strong case for a near term hike in rates, exhibiting the policy patience his predecessor liked to call \'masterful inaction.\'Investors have taken the message to heart and steadily widened the odds on a rate rise for the remainder of the year. Futures <0#YIB:> imply just a one-in-three chance of a hike by December, and are not fully priced for a move to 1.75 percent until August next year.A Reuters poll of 45 analysts taken last week found around half expected a rise late this year, with the rest tipping a prolonged pause to 2019. [AU/INT]Key to this patience has been the failure of workers to get pay rises despite a booming jobs market. Annual wage growth is only just above record lows at 2.1 percent and the RBA has conceded any pick up will come at a snail\'s pace.Globalisation, fierce retail competition, the long decline of trade unions and the increasing concentration of power among a small number of firms have all been blamed for what is a worldwide waning in wages growth.HOUSING COOLSThere is also plenty of slack left in the Australian labour force, particularly as more women go looking for work."Spare capacity is reducing only gradually indicating that wage growth is likely to remain muted for some time yet," said ANZ\'s head of Australian economics, David Plank.ANZ on Tuesday released a monthly survey showing job ads were flat in March after a dip the month before, hinting at some cooling in labour demand.All of which is restraining incomes at a time when households are trying to manage record amounts of mortgage debt, so eating into spending power.Consumers could once count on ever-rising home prices to buffer their wealth. The government estimates Australia\'s housing stock is worth a heady A$6.9 trillion ($5.29 trillion) - four times the size of annual gross domestic product.But efforts by regulators to clamp down on risky mortgage lending have taken much of the heat out of that market, with prices going backward in Sydney and Melbourne last month.Property consultant CoreLogic estimates annual price growth  across the major cities braked to just 0.8 percent in March, from a top of 10.5 percent in the middle of 2017."A cooling housing market is one more reason, alongside slow wages growth and inflation, for the RBA to keep the cash rate on hold," said Kristina Clifton, a senior economist at CBA.(Reporting by Wayne Cole and Swati Pandey; Editing by Shri Navaratnam)
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he wanted to "get out" of Syria but offered no timetable, as his advisers warned of the hard work left to defeat Islamic State and stabilise areas recaptured from the hardline militant group.Trump told a news conference the United States would "not rest until ISIS is gone," using an acronym for the militant group. But he also suggested that victory was imminent.The Pentagon and State Department have held that a longer term U.S. effort would be needed to ensure that Islamic State\'s defeat is a lasting one."It\'s time," Trump told reporters, when asked if he was inclined to withdraw U.S. forces."We were very successful against (Islamic State). We\'ll be successful against anybody militarily. But sometimes it\'s time to come back home, and we\'re thinking about that very seriously."The United States is waging near-daily air strikes in Syria and has deployed about 2,000 troops on the ground, including U.S. special operations forces whose advising has helped Kurdish militia and other U.S.-backed fighters capture territory from Islamic State.U.S. Army General Joseph Votel, who oversees U.S. troops in the Middle East as the head of Central Command, estimated on Tuesday that more than 90 percent of the group\'s territory in Syria had been taken back from the militants since 2014.Trump estimated the percentage of territory recaptured in Iraq and Syria at "almost 100 percent," a figure that U.S. officials say is correct - it is about 98 percent - but does not highlight the work left in Syria.The big hurdle, in the U.S. military\'s view, is seizing Islamic State-held territory around the Syrian town of Abu Kamal.That effort that has been slowed as U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters shift their focus away from Islamic State toward a Turkish offensive against Kurdish allies elsewhere in Syria\'s complex, multi-pronged civil war, now in its eighth year.Brett McGurk, the special U.S. envoy for the global coalition against Islamic State, speaking alongside Votel at an event in Washington on Tuesday, said the U.S. fight against Islamic State was not over."We are in Syria to fight ISIS. That is our mission and our mission isn\'t over and we are going to complete that mission,"  McGurk said.OBAMA DO-OVERExperts were divided about the significance of Trump\'s simultaneous musings about withdrawal and his assurance that the United States will not depart until Islamic State is defeated.The militant group is widely expected to revert to guerrilla tactics once the last remnants of its once self-styled "caliphate" are captured by U.S.-backed forces.Jon Alterman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think-tank, said a precipitous U.S. withdrawal would undermine U.S. leverage in talks to end Syria\'s civil war."The principal consequence is the United States surrenders the little influence it has over the future of Syria," he said.Experts warn an abrupt U.S. withdrawal could benefit Russia and Iran, U.S. rivals who could extend their influence in Syria.Trump noted that U.S. ally Saudi Arabia, Iran\'s arch-rival, was interested in his decision, adding: "Well, you know, you want us to stay, maybe you\'re going to have to pay."Trump has previously lambasted his predecessor, Barack Obama, for his withdrawal from Iraq that preceded an unravelling of the Iraqi armed forces, which eventually collapsed in the face of Islamic State\'s advance into the country in 2014.It was unclear what Trump\'s vision of a post-war U.S. role in Syria would look like. But his recent decision to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria suggests resistance to a broad U.S. ground effort.McGurk acknowledged a review was underway to ensure U.S. taxpayer dollars were well spent.Votel said he saw a U.S. military role in stabilization efforts in Syria."The hard part, I think, is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes," Votel said, adding "there is a military role in this."(Reporting by Phil Stewart, Idrees Ali, Arshad Mohammed, David Brunnstrom, Lesley Wroughton, and Lisa Lambert; Editing by Mary Milliken, James Dalgleish and Tom Brown)
ANKARA/ISTANBUL   Three foreign powers who have shaped Syria\'s civil war - Iran, Russia and Turkey - will discuss ways to wind down the fighting on Wednesday despite their involvement in rival military campaigns on the ground.The leaders of the three countries will meet in Ankara for talks on a new constitution for Syria and increasing security in "de-escalation" zones across the country, Turkish officials say.The Syria summit brings together two powers which have been President Bashar al-Assad\'s most forceful supporters, Iran and Russia, with one of his strongest opponents, Turkey.Cooperation between the rival camps raised hopes of stabilizing Syria after seven years of conflict in which 500,000 people have been killed and half the population displaced.But the violence has raged on, highlighting strategic rifts between the three countries who, in the absence of decisive Western intervention, hold Syria\'s fate largely in their hands.Syria\'s army and Iran-backed militias, with Russian air power, have crushed insurgents near Damascus in eastern Ghouta - one of the four mooted "de-escalation zones".Turkey, which sharply criticized the Ghouta offensive, waged its own military operation to drive Kurdish YPG fighters from the northwestern Syrian region of Afrin. It has pledged to take the town of Tel Rifaat and push further east, angering Iran."Whatever the intentions are, Turkey\'s moves in Syria, whether in Afrin, Tel Rifaat or any other part of Syria, should be halted as soon as possible," a senior Iranian official said.Iran has been Assad\'s most supportive ally throughout the conflict. Iran-backed militias first helped his army stem rebel advances and, following Russia\'s entry into the war in 2015, turn the tide decisively in Assad\'s favor.A Turkish official said Ankara will ask Moscow to press Assad to grant more humanitarian access in Ghouta, and to rein in air strikes on rebel-held areas. "We expect ... Russia to control the regime more," the official told reporters this week.RIFTS OVER ASSADAnkara\'s relations with Moscow collapsed in 2015 when Turkey shot down a Russian warplane but have recovered since then - to the concern of Turkey\'s Western allies.Turkey was one of the few NATO partners not to expel  Russian diplomats in response to a nerve agent attack on a former Russian agent which Britain blamed on Moscow - an allegation which Turkey said was not proven.Improved political ties have been reflected in Turkey\'s agreement to buy a Russian missile defence system and plans for Russia\'s ROSATOM to build Turkey\'s first nuclear power plant.Turkey has also expanded relations with Iran, exchanging visits by military chiefs of staff, although its deepening ties with Tehran and Moscow have not translated into broader agreement on Syria\'s future.Iran remains determined that Assad stay in power, while Russia is less committed to keeping him in office, a regional diplomat said. Turkey says Assad has lost legitimacy, although it no longer demands his immediate departure.At a meeting in Russia two months ago, boycotted by the leadership of Syria\'s opposition, delegates agreed to set up a committee to rewrite Syria\'s constitution and called for democratic elections.Turkey says Wednesday\'s meeting will discuss setting up the constitutional committee, humanitarian issues and developments in Syria\'s northern Idlib region, which is under the control of rival rebel factions and jihadi groups, and where Turkey has set up seven military observation posts."There are issues where all three countries have different policies in Syria," another Turkish official said. "In this regard, an aim is to find middle ground and create policies to improve the current situation."(Additional reporting by Orhan Coskun and Tulay Karadeniz in Ankara, Writing by Dominic Evans, Editing by Angus MacSwan)
BAGHDAD   "Letters from Baghdad," a documentary on Gertrude Bell, the British writer, explorer, spy and political officer who helped shape modern Iraq, had its first screening in the country on Monday, drawing loud applause from an audience of academics, diplomats, journalists and others.The documentary shows hitherto unseen footage of Iraq as it was being pulled together into a new state a century ago, with a script taken entirely from Bell\'s letters and official documents and read by British actress Tilda Swinton.It also throws some light on Iraq\'s current challenges as it emerges from a war with Islamic State militants and seeks to reconcile its Shi\'ite majority with its Sunni and Kurdish minorities.Mustafa Salim, an Iraqi journalist at the Washington Post Bureau in Baghdad, gave the documentary a thumbs up after the showing at the National Theater in Baghdad."It\'s a wonderful movie. But as an Iraqi viewer I would have liked it to go deeper into the political and historical aspects and the decisive influence she had in creating the Iraqi state," he said, referring to the fact that parts of the documentary focused mainly on Bell\'s private life.The theater was hushed throughout the screening, with little or no texting on phones - a sign of a healthily absorbed audience in modern-day Iraq."The Iraqi viewer will be immersed in a visual experience of a common past and walk away with a sense of a culturally very diverse and vibrant Baghdad in the early 1900s," Sabine Krayenbuehl, co-director of the film with Zeva Oelbaum, said before the screening.Released in 2016, "Letters from Baghdad" was selected for the BFI London film festival and won the audience award at the Beirut International Film Festival.Its screenings in Baghdad and elsewhere in Iraq have been organized by the Iraqi Ministry of Culture and coincide with the 150th anniversary of Bell\'s birth.It explains the key decisions made by Bell as a political officer in the British colonial administration ruling Iraq after World War One.Among these were the decision to include Sunni-majority Mosul and Kurdish areas in the north into the Iraqi state being pulled together by the British, and choosing Faisal bin Hussein from the Arabian Sunni hashemite dynasty as king.Bell drew up Iraq\'s borders based on her knowledge of the local populations she encountered as an explorer, when the Arabian Peninsula and Mespotamia were still under Turkish Ottoman control.One picture shows her with T.E. Lawrence "of Arabia", and Winston Churchill near the Great Pyramids of Egypt.The film also shows scenes of daily life in Baghdad, including families and personalities from its thriving Jewish community."Gertrude Bell was a champion of diversity, she loved the different culture she came upon. Iraq during her time was very diverse and Baghdad was a very vibrant city. We feel this is a message that is very important today," Oelbaum said.Bell, who died in 1926 and was buried in the city, also founded the Museum of Baghdad to showcase and preserve the Sumerian and Babylonian heritage of Mespotamia.The museum was plundered during the 2003 U.S.- and British-led-invasion which ousted Saddam Hussein and brought Iraq\'s Shi\'ites to power.Baghdad has changed drastically since Bell\'s time, as concrete buildings and roads replaced most of its traditional sand brick houses and their typical wooden verandas known as "shanashil"."We drove through the streets, we were looking at some of the older parts, seeing some of these old houses are falling apart. I think watching this movie gives an enthusiasm to want to restore and want to protect," Krayenbuehl said.(Reporting by Maher Chmaytelli; Editing by Hugh Lawson)

TEL ARBOUSH, Syria   The young men and women in traditional costumes of red, blue and white, the colors of the Assyrian flag, jumped into the middle of the park. With feathers or gold tiaras on their heads, they danced, kicking up their feet to a traditional song as the New Year\'s party reached its peak."We Assyrians must remain united," one song rang out. Older men watching raised a glass of Arak, an anise-flavored alcohol drink, to the dancers. The dance circle grew, as women, men and militiamen guarding the daytime party joined.It is the Assyrian New Year, or Akitu. And the start of year 6768, by their calendar, coincided this time with Easter, a rare occasion that gave the small and ever shrinking community of Assyrian Christians in northern Syria more reason for their celebration Sunday.They were snatching joy out of a site of tragedy. The village of Tal Arboush, where the organizers held the celebration, is one of more than 30 villages along the Khabur River that were destroyed when Islamic State group militants descended from the nearby mountain in February 2015 and rampaged through, kidnapping 226 residents and sending the rest fleeing.The villages remain deserted and in ruins. Years of war and instability had already been eroding the community in Syria, and the IS onslaught was the final blow that nearly finished it. From nearly 20,000 Assyrians in Syria before the war in 2011, there are around 1,000, according to local activists.Assyrians are a community that traces its heritage back to ancient Mesopotamia. They speak a Semitic language distinct from Arabic. There is also a beleaguered Assyrian community in Iraq, and a smaller population in Turkey.About 200 members of Syria\'s remaining community came to Tal Arboush to show their resilience."We wait for this occasion to have a little fun," said Ornina Shlimon Ayo, a 23-year old, who had just come out of the dance circle.They came from the nearby towns of Qamishli and Tal Tamr where they now live, bringing food and drink to the village, where many of the houses are in rubble. A tailor prepared Assyrian flags and pictures of Lamassu, an ancient Assyrian protective deity with the head of a human and body of a winged bull, to pass around.Small barbecues were set up in the corner of the park, and a DJ kept Assyrian songs running, many of them by well-known Assyrians in exile. At one point, an older man and his friend on a buzuq  a stringed instrument  played a few songs.A history teacher struggled to keep the attention of the audience as he lectured them, in Arabic and not in Assyrian, about the ancient civilization and one of the community\'s modern-day heroes, born in the 19th century around the New Year, Gen. Agha Petros, an Assyrian military leader who battled the Turks in World War I.Before the mass exodus, Akitu, which is also the ancient Mesopotamian spring festival, was the time for collective weddings, held on the slopes of the nearby mountain. Those weddings have now almost disappeared because of the dwindling community. Also, Assyrians fear the mountain could be mined or shelter IS sleeper cells.Only a few marriages take place these days, mostly held in churches.Wael Warda Marza, a local Assyrian politician, said he hoped the New Year celebrations would serve to attract the thousands of Assyrians who migrated abroad."We are back again to celebrating. The sun of Ashur (the Assyrian God of war) has risen again over the villages of Khabur," Marza said. "The black flags (of IS) were only a black cloud over our villages."Still, they are wary. Assyrian security men toting automatic rifles guarded the party from the rooftop of a building overlooking the public park. Others milled around near the parking lot, some filtering in the joint the dance.The trail of destruction left by the Islamic State group serves as a reminder of how vulnerable the community is. With IS largely defeated across Syria, the main Kurdish militia, backed by the U.S., has set up a new administration in northern Syria. It has made a largely symbolic effort to be inclusive of minorities, giving Assyrians and other communities seats in local councils. It has also given support to Assyrian militias.These Assyrian militias now still guard the deserted villages, fearing they will be overtaken by the nearby Arabs or Kurds, who greatly outnumber them. There are still fears of IS re-emergence.The IS militants stormed a dozen villages one night in February 23, 2015. In coordinated attacks, the militants kidnapped 226 residents.The Syrian government had withdrawn from the villages and the Khabur River valley area in 2012 as it tried to control territory elsewhere amid the chaos as protests against the government turned into armed conflict. Local militias took over security in the villages, but residents filtered out steadily, fleeing the instability.So that horrific night three years ago, the militia couldn\'t protect the residents or the area\'s ancient churches from the well-armed, aggressive IS militants.Zaya Youkhana, a 52-year-old resident of Tal Jazira, was not in his village when IS stormed it. It was the largest village in the area, and IS kidnapped all its 82 residents, including his uncles and aunts, among the 226 Assyrians total carried off by the group that night.It took a year, but a local bishop was able to gather donations abroad to pay ransoms that eventually won the freedom of all the captives  almost. Three residents were killed in a grisly video released by the militants during the negotiations.And Youkhana said the granddaughter of his uncle was never found. "We don\'t know her fate. We hope she returns to her family safely," he said as he stepped over ruins to reach his uncle\'s mulberry tree.A slogan of the militants remains scribbled on the walls, a haunting reminder: "Soldiers of the Islamic State passed by here."
JAKARTA, Indonesia   Judges on a popular British cooking show are being ridiculed for ignorance of Asian food after insisting a Malaysian contestant\'s chicken rendang curry should have been crispy.Foodies in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia have taken to social media to vent at the critique of the Malaysian-born cook\'s traditional and standard method for preparing chicken rendang."The skin isn\'t crispy. It can\'t be eaten but all the sauce is on the skin I can\'t eat," one of the MasterChef UK judges complained in a recent episode of the show.Online, Southeast Asians pointed out that the chicken is cooked in curry sauce, not fried, and is never crispy. Some accused the judges of neo-colonial attitudes and racism.Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak also chipped in, posting a photo of chicken rendang on Twitter and light-heartedly asking whether anyone has ever eaten a crispy chicken curry. Malaysian Foreign Minister Anifah Aman said the judges were guilty of "whitesplaining."The contestant, Zaleha Kadir Olpin, was eliminated from the competition but took to Instagram to vow she\'d never stop cooking the traditional way.Her offending rendang was presented as part of Malaysia\'s national dish, Nasi Lemak, or rice cooked in coconut milk that comes with sides such as peanuts, spicy prawns and rendang.The judges lavished praise on most of the ingredients but dismissed the non-crispy chicken rendang as a "mistake."One of the judges, John Torode, later stirred more controversy online by trying to fuel the ages-old war of words between Malaysians and Indonesians over which country invented rendang. However the absurdity of the crispy curry saga has provided the neighboring countries with a rare point of agreement.The curry, which originates from West Sumatra in Indonesia, is popular in Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei and southern Thailand.
JOHANNESBURG   Six South African miners were burnt to death when the bus taking them to work was set alight by a petrol bomb thrown by unknown attackers, police and the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said on Tuesday.The platinum belt in the world\'s top producer of the precious metal has been a flashpoint of violence rooted in community grievances over jobs and revenue flows and conflict between rival unions."Six workers were burned beyond recognition and the other workers had to escape through windows. We also do not know what is the motive of the attack," Phillip Mankge, the NUM\'s North East Regional Secretary, said in a statement.The attack occured Monday night near the town of Burgersfort in northern Limpopo province while the workers were being driven to the Modikwa platinum mine, operated by African Rainbow Minerals (ARM) and Anglo American Platinum.ARM spokeswoman Jongisa Magagula said production at the mine, which produces around 300,000 ounces of platinum group metals annually, had halted and staff would hold a mass meeting later in the day.The companies said in a joint statement that 44 workers were also receiving medical attention in the wake of the attack.The South African Police Service said that it was offering a 500,000 rand ($42,000) reward for information leading to arrests or possible convictions of those responsible.When police arrived on the scene "the bus had already burned to ashes with six victims inside," police said in a statement. A high level team of investigators had been assigned to the case.NUM said that there have been "a number of incidences in Burgersfort and surrounding areas recently that led to road closures and trucks burned."A turf war between NUM and arch rival the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) has also triggered violence that has killed dozens of workers, including 34 wildcat miners shot dead by police in 2012 outside the Marikana mine operated by platinum producer Lonmin.(Editing Raissa Kasolowsky and Louise Heavens)
LONDON   Britain\'s biggest supermarket chain Tesco said on Tuesday the price of its own brand fizzy drinks will not increase after a sugar levy comes into force this week as they already fall below a government-imposed threshold.Britain will implement the levy from April 6 on makers of sugary drinks, a move advocated by health campaigners arguing that they are a source of empty calories.A charge of 18 pence ($0.25) per litre will be levied on drinks containing 5 grammes or more of sugar per 100 millilitres and 24 pence per litre on drinks containing 8 grammes or more.But Tesco said it had spent years cutting the level of sugar in its own label products and will not be subject to the levy."Over the last decade, we\'ve been working in partnership with our suppliers to make our own-label soft drinks healthier, by reformulating them to reduce sugar content," said Head of Soft Drinks Phil Banks."This work has meant that we\'ve been able to cut over 9 billion calories from customers\' annual diets," he said.Tesco, which has 28 percent market share in Britain and also operates abroad, said 85 percent of the drinks sold in its stores will be exempt from the charge although some brand prices will rise.But cuts in sugar, including to soft drinks Irn Bru, known as Scotland\'s second national drink, have prompted outrage among some fans.Confectioner Nestle also said last month it was launching a lower-sugar Milkybar in a bid to partly address one of Big Food\'s toughest challenges - how to make junk food healthy but keep it tasty.The "war on sugar" being waged by governments and consumers to combat public health emergencies like diabetes is slowing growth in global demand, challenging countries such as Brazil and India reliant on the sector.(The story corrects millimetres to millilitres in third paragraph)(Reporting by Costas Pitas; editing by Stephen Addison)
TOKYO, Japan   Ministers from the two Koreas agreed to push for a unified delegation from both countries parading together in the opening ceremony at this year\'s Asian Games in Indonesia, according to the Yonhap News Agency.At a meeting in Pyongyang on Monday, the North\'s Kim Il-guk and his South counterpart Do Jong-whan discussed future sporting collaborations between the nations as tensions heightened by Pyongyang\'s nuclear ambitions continue to thaw.The nations marched under a unified flag at the opening and closing ceremonies of February\'s Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang and the ministers were optimistic of a similar partnership at the August-September Asian Games, being co-hosted by Jakarta and Palembang.According to Yonhap, the ministers would be finalizing the details after the two countries\' historic summit at the end of April."It would be great if we can have working level discussions and start working on specific agreements after the summit at the end of April," Do told reporters. "I hope sports can lead the way for inter-Korean reconciliation."A South Korean delegation traveled to Pyongyang on Saturday in a reciprocal cultural visit after North Korea sent performers to the South for the Winter Games.A taekwondo presentation preceded performances from K-pop stars, including Red Velvet, in the North Korean capital.The neighbors are technically still at war after the 1950-53 conflict ended with a ceasefire, not a truce.(Reporting by Jack Tarrant; Editing by John O\'Brien)
___Spotify wins more fans in stock market debut as shares surgeSAN FRANCISCO (AP)  Spotify\'s opening act on Wall Street struck a chord with investors betting the unprofitable company\'s trend-setting music streaming service will maintain its early lead over Apple and other powerful challengers. After several hours of anticipation Tuesday, Spotify\'s shares traded as high as $169 in their stock market debut before falling back. The stock closed at $149.01, minting Spotify with a market value of about $27 billion, one of the best-ever debuts by a tech company.___Stocks jump late, clawing back ground lost on trade fearsNEW YORK (AP)  U.S. stocks jump in a late rally as banks and retailers recover some of their steep losses from a day earlier. GM and Ford finish solidly higher. CBS rises and Viacom falls on reports CBS will offer to buy Viacom, but that its bid will be for less than the company\'s current market value. Microsoft and Apple climb, as does Amazon.___Woman opens fire at YouTube, 4 wounded and shooter deadSAN BRUNO, Calif (AP)  Police say a woman opened fire at YouTube headquarters and wounded four people. Officials say the unidentified woman died of a self-inflicted gunshot. San Francisco General hospital says it was treating three patients. One is in critical condition and another patient is in serious condition. Police and federal agents swarmed YouTube\'s headquarters in San Bruno after the shooting was reported.___Sky News could be sold to Disney under new planLONDON (AP)  Sky News could be sold to Walt Disney or completely ring-fenced in concessions put forward Tuesday by Rupert Murdoch\'s 21st Century Fox as it seeks to bolster its chances of taking full control of the U.K. satellite broadcaster Sky. The proposals are aimed at easing some of the regulatory concerns over the extent of Murdoch\'s influence on British media if his 21st Century Fox is cleared to buy the 61 percent of Sky it doesn\'t already own for 11.7 billion pounds ($16.4 billion).___Tesla raises production but falls short of Model 3 goalsDETROIT (AP)  Electric car maker Tesla Inc. increased production of its Model 3 mass-market car in the first quarter but still fell far short of the numbers it promised last summer. The Palo Alto, California, company says it made just under 9,800 Model 3s from January through March.___Williams picked as next president of New York FedWASHINGTON (AP)  John Williams, currently head of the Federal Reserve\'s regional bank in San Francisco, has been selected to be the next president of the Fed\'s New York regional bank. The New York job is considered the most influential position among the central bank\'s 12 regional banks.___EPA chief draws Trump praise  and ireWASHINGTON (AP)  President Donald Trump has offered a measured gesture of support for the embattled head of the Environmental Protect Agency. But those words of encouragement for Scott Pruitt also came with a White House warning about the ethical questions surrounding his travel spending and ties to Washington lobbyists. And on Tuesday, a Republican in the House said Pruitt should quit or be fired.___Argentine drought hits farmers hard, undermining economyPERGAMINO, Argentina (AP)  A harsh drought in Argentina that began in November is causing big losses, reduced expectations of economic growth and growing concerns among farmers, government officials and experts in the world\'s third-largest exporter of soybean and corn. Farming is the Argentine economy\'s main engine, and what is expected to be the poorest harvest in at least a decade has already cut growth forecasts by up to a percentage point.___Midlife \'wealth shock\' may lead to death, study suggestsA new study says middle-aged Americans who experienced a sudden large economic blow were more likely to die than those who didn\'t. The study was published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association. It looks at what the researchers called a "wealth shock." Overall, wealth shock was tied with a 50 percent greater risk of dying, although the study couldn\'t prove a cause-and-effect connection.___Auto sales up 6.3 percent in March as SUV, pickups dominateDETROIT (AP)  U.S. auto sales grew 6.3 percent in March on rising sales of SUVs and pickup trucks. Automakers sold more than 1.6 million vehicles for the month as buyers came out of hibernation after a cold, snowy winter in much of the country Truck and SUV sales rose 16.3 percent while car sales plunged 9.2 percent, according to Autodata Corp. Nearly two-thirds of all vehicles sold were trucks or SUVs.___The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index rose 32.57 points, or 1.3 percent, to 2,614.45. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 389.17 points, or 1.6 percent, to 24,033.36. The Nasdaq composite climbed 71.16 points, or 1 percent, to 6,941.28. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks added 19.62 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,512.15.A barrel of U.S. crude gained 50 cents to $63.51 in New York while Brent crude, used to price international oils, rose 48 cents to $68.12 a barrel in London. Wholesale gasoline added 1 cent to $1.97 a gallon and heating oil rose 1 cent to $2 a gallon. Natural gas picked up 1 cent to $2.70 per 1,000 cubic feet.
LONDON/NEW YORK   Spotify SPOT.N shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday with an opening price of $165.90 per share, nearly 26 percent above the reference price of $132 a share set by the NYSE late on Monday.The streaming music leader has structured the stock market listing to allow existing investors to sell directly to the public while offering no shares of its own, in a test case being closely watched by other well-funded multibillion-dollar tech companies with no immediate cash-raising needs.COMMENTSMICHAEL CARVIN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, SMARTASSET, NEW YORKThe direct listing is a focal point for other cash-rich companies who dont need to use the capital markets to raise money but still are seeking an alternative path to liquidity. If this works, many companies may use Spotifys IPO as a benchmark. However, a direct listing would be extremely difficult for companies who dont have the same name recognition as Spotify. This is a large listing, and Spotify has the advantage of a huge consumer base which it can leverage into retail investors.The fact that other unicorn tech companies like Dropbox have gone public successfully recently is a positive sign for Spotify despite the stock slump in the tech sector. Carrying out a direct listing has its risks; however, if the deal runs smoothly, we might see more companies opting for this unconventional approach.I think Spotify is a good bet. Its well-capitalized and cash-flow efficient, and its sheer scale opens the door to a lot of opportunities to diversify. With that said, investors are right to have some reservations. Spotify is haemorrhaging from the costs of licensing content. The outlay for licensing is one of the reasons Pandora is still not profitable. In addition, even though Spotifys scale is about twice that of Apple Music, Apple has a huge ecosystem of products to market to.TOMAS OTTERBECK, ANALYST, REDEYE FINANCIAL, STOCKHOLMSpotify is just as hyped as (the IPOs of) Twitter and Snap.Its the same with Spotify.Private investors and traders will probably trade the share up substantially at the beginning.It will be more interesting to see what happens to the share in the coming two to three days.STEPHEN MASSOCCA, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, WEDBUSH SECURITIES, SAN FRANCISCOObviously it was kind of an interesting avenue. It wasnt your typical IPO. But it has done well. I am surprised to see that the buying has been pretty good here. The whole tech selloff over the last few days doesnt appear to be impacting this at all, and you would think people might have a little reticence into buying these type of names given the downdraft that companies like Facebook and Google have experienced. The trading has been more positive than I initially thought it would have been.KIM FORREST, SENIOR PORTFOLIO MANAGER AT FORT PITT CAPITAL GROUP IN PITTSBURGH"It\'s an interesting way to allow people who already hold the stock to monetize it. It\'s interesting in that they\'re not doing it to raise money." "There\'s a lot of froth and excitement going on today. Maybe we\'re going to have FANGS instead of FANG." "Why people are really hot for it is because they love momentum. Its in that (FANG) industry space. Its technology providing a service people may not have to pay for. But it does have a fee model and that makes it interesting. They seem to have thrived and not only survived.""It took longer to open than a normal IPO. Its a good thing to try to explore this and it doesn\'t seem to have hurt investors at least a half an hour into trading," she said. "You\'re holding a party and you don\'t know if anybody\'s going to show up. Its a big expensive party."CHI-HUA CHIEN, MANAGING PARTNER, GOODWATER CAPITAL, SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA"Amazing.""It\'s a fair market price. It\'s not manipulated or set by any puts and takes by banks or institutional investors. That\'s the real price, and I think that will be revealing to a lot of companies."(Compiled by Alden Bentley)
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump\'s strategy for the U.S.-Mexico border includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said on Tuesday, after Trump had earlier spoken publicly to reporters about "guarding our border with the military" to stop illegal immigrants.The White House statement was released after Trump met with Defense Secretary James Mattis, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other officials on border issues. It gave no details on whether or when Trump\'s strategy might be implemented.The National Guard, part of the U.S. military\'s reserve forces, has been used in recent years for surveillance and intelligence on the border, but not direct law enforcement.The president\'s earlier remarks sharpened his recurring anti-immigration rhetoric. He said he wanted to deploy U.S. military forces until his long-promised border wall is built."Until we can have a wall and proper security were going to be guarding our border with the military," Trump told reporters at the White House, lamenting what he called "horrible" U.S. laws that left the southern border poorly protected.Trump railed against a "caravan" of Central American migrants traveling from the Mexico-Guatemala border in the last 10 days toward the United States, journeys that have occurred annually since 2010 in an effort to draw attention to the plight of people fleeing violence in their countries.On Tuesday night, Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said on Twitter that the caravan "dispersed gradually and at the decision of its participants." Mexican officials say privately that they believe Trump has exaggerated the caravan\'s importance to renew pressure on Mexico over the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.After 14 months in office, Trump still hammers regularly on an anti-immigration theme that helped to energize conservative  Republican voters who helped him win the presidency in the 2016 election. Trump took a hard line on illegal immigration during the campaign and has also sought to curtail legal immigration.His efforts have thus far failed to produce a comprehensive overhaul of America\'s immigration laws or full funding for his border wall in the Republican-led Congress. No major legislation was expected before November\'s congressional elections.LEGAL QUESTIONS RAISEDHis latest comments immediately raised questions in Congress and among legal experts about troop deployments on U.S. soil.The Posse Comitatus Act, a federal law on the books since the 1870s, restricts using the U.S. Army and other main branches of the military for civilian law enforcement on U.S. soil, unless specifically authorized by Congress.But the military can provide support services to law enforcement and has done so on occasion since the 1980s.Under Republican President George W. Bush, the National Guard between 2006 and 2008 provided border-related intelligence analysis, but had no direct law enforcement role.In 2010, President Barack Obama sent National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexican border to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support to U.S. Border Patrol agents.Some specific statutes authorize the president to deploy troops within the United States for riot control or relief efforts after natural disasters."The details really matter here," said Stephen Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law."The real question is going to be if the president is serious about this, what kind of legal arguments do we get out of the White House and the Pentagon for such a deployment."A senior Republican aide in the U.S. House of Representatives said key lawmakers had not been briefed on the White House plan. The aide said there was no indication that a specific plan had even been formulated yet.Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico\'s ambassador in Washington, said he had spoken to U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen about Trump\'s remarks on the border and that Mexico had formally asked the U.S. government to clarify them."It\'s certainly not something that the Mexican government welcomes," Gutierrez told CNN.Nielsen, who took part in the meeting with Trump, said in a Twitter message late on Tuesday that she had been told by  Mexican officials "the caravan is dissipating."In southern Mexico, officials screened the dwindling number of hundreds of largely Central American migrants on Tuesday.At a campaign rally, Mexican leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is leading most polls by double digits before the July 1 presidential election, said that if the U.S. government militarizes the border, thousands of his supporters would protest by forming a "big human chain of Mexicans for peace."Some members of Congress said they were uncomfortable with the idea of using the military at the border.Democratic Senator Brian Schatz said Trump should have to seek approval from Congress for any such troop deployment. "We should put that new law to a vote in the Senate," he said on Twitter. I predict fewer than 20 votes."In a Twitter post earlier on Tuesday, Trump said the caravan "heading to our \'Weak Laws\' Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!" Congress is on vacation until next week.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Susan Heavey, Makini Brice, Amanda Becker, Richard Cowan, Eric Beech, Mohammad Zargham and Phil Stewart in Washington; Karen Freifeld in New York and the Mexico City newsroom; Writing by John Whitesides; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Grant McCool)
Spotify is a hit.On its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the music streaming service finished with a valuation of $26.5 billion. The share price closed at $149.01, giving Spotify a market value similar to that of companies like M&T Bank and General Mills.For the music business, Spotifys listing on the Big Board symbolized the ascent of streaming as the new dominant format. It also represented some rare good news for an industry deeply affected by technological change. Buoyed by subscriptions from services like Spotify and Apple Music, record labels have begun to have significant revenue growth for the first time in nearly two decades, drawing attention from investors.Theres a healthy appetite among public market investors for streaming media assets, said Rob Sanderson, an analyst at MKM Partners.The stock opened trading at $165.90, meaning that Spotify was valued at $29.5 billion to start the day, before declining gradually through the afternoon.Among Wall Street traders, Spotifys debut as a public company drew attention for the way it decided to list its shares. It went with a so-called direct listing approach, a rare process that eschewed the usual circus  and safeguards  of a standard initial public offering.Typically, a company lists its shares publicly as part of a broader plan to raise fresh cash for acquisitions or other investments. Spotify chose not to raise any new funds by issuing shares, which would have diluted the value of existing stakes owned by shareholders.Instead, the company is taking existing shares and allowing them to be traded on the exchange. That allows longtime shareholders  like investors and employees  to sell their shares on the exchange immediately, though for years an active secondary market has existed for Spotify stock.The Stockholm-based company, which was founded in 2006 and went online in 2008, said it did not need to raise any new cash from investors, citing the roughly $1.84 billion it had on hand at the end of 2017.Daniel Ek, the companys chief executive and co-founder, characterized Spotifys manner of going public as perfectly in keeping with the companys self-image as a disrupter.Normally, companies ring bells. Normally, companies spend their day doing interviews on the trading floor touting why their stock is a good investment, Mr. Ek said in a statement Monday. Normally, companies dont pursue a direct listing.While I appreciate that this path makes sense for most, Spotify has never been a normal kind of company.Indeed, Mr. Ek gave no interviews on the trading floor (although he did appear on CBS This Morning).Spotifys direct listing approach was still seen as risky. Without underwriting banks acting as stabilizing agents, and without millions of newly issued shares to guarantee liquidity, the process for setting an opening price proved slow and complex. The stock did not begin trading until 12:43 p.m., the latest start for any company ever listed on the New York Stock Exchange, according to Kristen Kaus, a spokeswoman for the exchange.Before the slow start, in a botched attempt at hospitality, the New York Stock Exchange welcomed the Swedish company to the trading floor by flying the red and white flag of Switzerland outside its headquarters in Lower Manhattan. The error was quickly corrected, with a blue and yellow Swedish flag taking the place of the Swiss banner  but not before Scandinavian Twitter had captured the mix-up.Afterward, the day went without a glitch, with Spotify achieving a trading volume of 30 million.It was a safe landing, said Santosh Rao, the head of research at Manhattan Venture Partners. People thought this was going to be chaotic, but it was smooth.Spotifys arrival on the market followed the Wall Street debut of Dropbox last month, when the cloud storage companys shares jumped 36 percent on its first day of trading. Dropbox closed Tuesday at $31.59, far above its I.P.O. price of $21 a share.Taken together, the new offerings amount to a bright spot for a technology sector that has been badly beaten up by investors this year. Amid growing concern over trade tensions with China and possible regulatory scrutiny of Facebook, technology shares shed roughly $450 billion in market capitalization between March 12, the peak of the Standard & Poors 500 tech sector, and Monday.
ST. PAUL, Minn.   The Minnesota Wild made sure the bad news didn\'t defeat them.Their season-ending road trip sure feels a little lighter now, with a spot in the playoffs secure.Zach Parise scored twice and Devan Dubnyk made 22 saves to blank his original team, pushing the Wild past the Edmonton Oilers 3-0 on Monday night."I hope it makes them feel good about themselves," coach Bruce Boudreau said. "I thought our defense was good."With 98 points, matching the fourth-most in franchise history, the Wild did their part. Then Los Angeles chipped in with a victory about 2 1/2 hours later over Colorado that took the pressure off Minnesota\'s last three games, at Anaheim, Los Angeles and San Jose. The Wild are nearly locked into third place in the Central Division and a first-round matchup with Winnipeg."I don\'t know how all this math works out," Boudreau said, before leaving the arena to watch the conclusion of the Avalanche-Kings game at home. "I just wake up in the morning and hope to see an \'X\' by the name."Playing for the first time in nearly three years without stalwart defenseman Ryan Suter, the Wild wrapped up their home schedule with a staggering 21-3 shots advantage in the third period. Joel Eriksson Ek added an empty-net goal as the Wild finished 27-6-8 at Xcel Energy Center, the second-best home record in the league.With rookies Nick Seeler and Carson Soucy, in his NHL debut no less, playing key roles on the blue line, the Wild put together a postseason-caliber performance."You need different people to step up and do important things, and that\'s going to be the case for us," Dubnyk said. "That was a good look."Cam Talbot made 37 saves for the Oilers, who lost their fifth straight game and ensured a sub-80-point finish for the eighth time in the last nine years."The finish line is non-rewarding. You fall behind, you feel like you don\'t get a break, you miss a net or something like that, it takes a little bit more out of you," coach Todd McLellan said. "We should be more resilient. We\'re not right now."Parise has been a big part of the push. The Wild are 24-9-7 with him in the lineup, after he missed the first 39 games of the season recovering from back surgery. Playing next to Mikko Koivu and Mikael Granlund has given him a clear boost."As a group, we\'re meshing really well together," Parise said.The Wild scored the first goal for the first time in seven games, when Parise snagged a bouncing puck at his own blue line that Oilers defenseman Adam Larsson was struggling to control with his skates and broke loose on an unabated path to the net. He snapped a shot though Talbot\'s pads just 3:33 into the contest.Dubnyk then went to work on his fifth shutout of the season, making some difficult saves, including a denial of NHL points leader Connor McDavid\'s attempt with his right leg.Parise provided some padding when he swooped into position to knock in a rebound of Jonas Brodin\'s attempt before the midpoint of the second period.Making the 400th start of his NHL career against the club that drafted him in the first round in 2004, Dubnyk recorded his 133rd win for the Wild since they acquired him in a trade on Jan. 14, 2015. No goalie in the league has played in more games (230) or pitched more shutouts (20) since then.Edmonton won the first two meetings with Minnesota this season, with McDavid registering two goals and two assists, but after the breakthrough in 2016-17 the Oilers have tumbled back down the Western Conference standings. They\'re 17-23-4 since the Christmas break.Talbot was pulled at Calgary on Saturday night after only 11 1/2 minutes, after allowing three goals on seven shots, but McLellan stuck with him and was rewarded with his highest save total in nine appearances since he stopped 40 shots at Florida on March 17."We definitely had opportunities to make this a good road trip," said left wing Milan Lucic, "but we didn\'t do it in Vancouver when we had a real good start the way that we did. We didn\'t do it in Calgary and once again here."NOTES: Parise has at least one point in seven straight games and 12 goals over his last 19 games, the third-most in the league since March 1. ... Oilers defensemen Andrej Sekera and Yohann Auvitu were each injured in the second period and didn\'t return. ... With Suter\'s absence, center Eric Staal became the Wild\'s new ironman by playing in his 161st consecutive contest. He has not missed a game since joining the team prior to last season.UP NEXTOilers: Host Vegas on Thursday.Wild: Play at Anaheim on Wednesday.___For more AP NHL coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey
(Reuters) - Tesla Inc sought to squash any speculation it might need to raise more capital this year on Tuesday, driving the company\'s battered shares higher as it announced it built 2,020 of its cheaper Model 3 sedans in the last seven days.Tesla shares jumped as much as 6.9 percent in morning trade, recouping a third of its losses from a week dominated by bad news about its credit rating and a crash involving a car using its semi-autonomous driving technology.But with the company again missing its own 2,500 target for weekly production at the end of the first quarter, doubts remained among analysts and fund managers about Tesla\'s ability to keep production growing to a promised 5,000 Model 3s per week in three months time.Musk\'s $50-billion dollar company, involved in a raft of projects ranging from trucks to a Roadster sports car and a factory in China, said it would also churn out 2,000 of the Model 3 cars next week and promised output would climb rapidly through the second quarter.The Model 3 is the most affordable of Tesla\'s cars to date and is the only one capable of transforming the niche automaker into a mass producer amid a sea of rivals entering the nascent electric vehicle market."(Tesla is) laying the groundwork for Q3 to have the long-sought ideal combination of high volume, good gross margin and strong positive operating cash flow," the company said in the filing."As a result, Tesla does not require an equity or debt raise this year, apart from standard credit lines."Jefferies analysts had estimated that Tesla needed $2.5 billion to $3 billion of fresh equity to fund the Model 3 ramp-up and several other Wall Street brokerages have predicted the company would need more funds this year to fund its wide range of technology initiatives.SKEPTICSSome analysts said there were signs that the company might have prioritized the cheaper car, seen as crucial to its profitability, over its Model X SUV and more-established and expensive Model S sedan.Last week, Barclays analyst Brian Johnson warned investors to be wary of a brief "burst rate" of Model 3 production that was  not sustainable."Tesla may have stockpiled batteries amid Fremont downtime, allowing production to be higher in the final week of 1Q," Johnson wrote. "Any such \'beat\' is unlikely to be sustainable, and questions remain on Tesla\'s ability to sustainably reach 2,500/week, let alone 5k/week."First-quarter deliveries totaled 29,980 vehicles, out of which 11,730 were Model S and 10,070 were Model X. Both were lower from the previous quarter and the first quarter a year ago."Maybe Elon Musk switched staff from Model S and X to Model 3 to get better production numbers for Model 3," said analyst Frank Schwope from NORD/LB.While Tesla had promised to reach 2,500 cars per week in the first quarter which ended March 31, the Model 3 weekly numbers it gave were for the seven days to April 2. Tesla declined to give production figures for the week to March 31.Tesla shares peaked at $389 last September and have been declining steadily since, but analysts continue to give the company the benefit of the doubt as a big bet on the future of high-tech electric and self-driving vehicles.Meanwhile, investors raised their bets against Tesla shares by 10 percent since mid-March, according to data provided by S3 Partners LLC on Tuesday, betting the market has misjudged the electric car maker\'s prospects.Musk himself has taken direct control of Model 3 production and the company says it already has about 500,000 advance reservations from customers for the car.The production numbers, while short of Tesla\'s own target, are far above the 793 Model 3s built in the final week of last year."Progress is the first word that comes to mind after reading the Q1 delivery report," Nomura analyst Romit Shah said."We believe that the backlog for Models S and X remains solid but that this is an area to monitor given the sequential declines."(Reporting by Munsif Vengattil, Sonam Rai and Alexandria Sage; Editing by Patrick Graham and Bernard Orr)
ALTERNATE SIDE By Anna Quindlen 284 pp. Random House. $28.In real estate, theres more than a semantic difference between a dead end and a cul-de-sac. A dead end can be a trap; a block that stops at an inaccessible barrier, backing up to a park (best case), a commercial building, a police station, a hospital, a school. A cul-de-sac, French for bottom of the bag, connotes coziness: a safe place for a child to learn to ride a bike or play street hockey. A home on a block visited only by those who live there or those who are lost has a cachet thats hard to put a price on.There arent many residential cul-de-sacs in Manhattan, which, to foster easy navigation, was laid out on a uniform grid north of Houston Street, beginning in 1811. Rarity is a quality that drives housing prices beyond astronomical to the real estate equivalent of a winning Powerball ticket. Which means that Charlie and Nora Nolan, the couple at the center of Anna Quindlens exquisitely rendered ninth novel, Alternate Side, are sitting on a gold mine. The home they bought two decades ago on the Upper West Side is where they raised their twins, but the kids are now seniors at Williams and M.I.T. Charlie, a disaffected investment banker, is ready to cash in and trade New York winters for a home on the back nine somewhere in the Sunbelt. Nora, who runs a museum devoted to fine jewelry, cant imagine living anywhere but New York.So its good news, at least temporarily, when one of Charlies dreams comes true: He has finally secured that most precious of Manhattan commodities, off-street parking. Theres a brownstone-size gap between two of the buildings on the cul-de-sac. Long ago, fire gutted a home on the site and the owner never redeveloped it. Instead, the lot has been divided into six parking spaces. When Charlie finally scores one, Nora hopes hell stop talking about selling the house.If a novel about first-world problems, as Noras daughter calls them, already has you rolling your eyes, remember that Quindlen, who won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary while a New York Times columnist, is one of our most astute chroniclers of modern life. This novel may be too quiet for some, too populated with rich whiners for others, but it has an almost documentary feel, a verisimilitude thats awfully hard to achieve. Theres no moment that feels contrived or false, except perhaps to non-New Yorkers who may find it impossible to believe that anyone would consider $350 a month for a parking space a bargain too good to pass up.The story is told from Noras point of view. Much like Quindlen, shes a sensitive and introspective observer of people and what makes them tick. Shes also keenly aware that the residents of her tightknit block are white and the nannies, housekeepers and handymen who work for them are not.This factors into the story when her handyman, Ricky, inadvertently blocks access to the parking lot and a neighbor with well-established anger management issues takes a 3- iron to his van, shattering the handymans leg when he intervenes.Charlie witnesses the incident; Nora happens upon it, returning from a jog. And when Charlie sides with the neighbor, a crack develops in the neighborhoods facade, affecting everyone, but none more than the Nolans.Charlie isnt, by any stretch, a terrible husband. He isnt having an affair with a much younger woman and hes not engaged in financial shenanigans. When the twins were younger, he was an attentive father. But he cant shake the feeling that Nora settled for him when they married, and hes frustrated by his inability to be somebody in the business world. Perhaps only in New York would a mans climb up the ladder be permanently halted when hes thought to be too decent: Over the years his colleagues had waited for the shark to emerge from behind the nice guy, the wolf in sheeps clothing to make an appearance, the open-faced mask to drop. Nora suspected that when they realized it was not a mask at all, they had begun to value Charlie less.Noras Achilles heel is passivity. She has let life happen to her rather than make the life she once wanted. She didnt choose a career so much as allow it to choose her. When a pregnant supervisor was put on bed rest while Nora was working a summer job in the development office at Williams, she was asked to take on more responsibility, and when her boss was later hired in New York, she brought Nora along. Noras current job had literally fallen into her lap at a luncheon.Now, finally, Nora realizes its past time to take control. People go through life thinking theyre making decisions, she tells herself, when theyre really just making plans, which is not the same thing at all. She has a decision to make. Is life on her cul-de-sac worth fighting for? Or is it, in fact, a dead end?
OTTAWA, Ontario   Blake Wheeler and the playoff-bound Winnipeg Jets were just glad to get a win against an Ottawa Senators team playing its final home game in a disappointing season.Wheeler scored twice and Andrew Copp had a goal and an assist as the Winnipeg Jets beat the Ottawa Senators 6-5 on Monday night.Josh Morrissey, Brandon Tanev and Mathieu Perreault also scored for the Jets, who pulled five points behind first-place Nashville in the Central Division with three games remaining. Adam Lowry and Mark Scheifele each had two assists, and Connor Hellebuyck stopped 32 shots."They played hard and didn\'t quit so you have to give them credit," Wheeler said. "It\'s two points, it\'s a win. Obviously there\'s areas we can be better, but we scored one more goal than they did."Thomas Chabot and Matt Duchene each scored twice and Christian Wolanin got his first NHL goal for Ottawa. Craig Anderson finished with 34 saves."Fans probably loved seeing 11 goals, but for a coach not so much," Ottawa coach Guy Boucher said. "We did enough offensively to win the game, but when you don\'t defend as well as you attack offensively it makes it difficult."The Senators pulled to 5-4 at 4:47 of the third as Wolanin beat Hellebuyck glove side. However, Perreault restored the Jets\' two-goal lead on the power play with 5:22 remaining.Duchene pulled Ottawa within one again on Duchene\'s second power-play goal of the ninth with 1:05 to go.The Senators trailed 3-0 less than 12 minutes into the game, before Chabot got them on the scoreboard as he beat Hellebuyck with 1:34 left in the opening period. Ottawa captain Erik Karlsson recorded an assist on the play, giving him his fifth straight 60-point season and seventh of his career.Duchene pulled the Senators within one 1:28 into the second.However, Tanev scored short-handed nearly five minutes later to push the Jets\' lead to 4-2.Ottawa got within one again as Chabot scored his second of the night for his first multigoal game with just over eight minuts left in the second, but Winnipeg scored again less than a minute later with Wheeler picking up his second.After the game, Karlsson picked up the game puck before skating to the locker room. While he downplayed the significance of the act, it might have been his last time on home ice in Ottawa. The star defenseman was the subject of talks heading into the trade deadline in late February, and there\'s speculation he could be dealt in the offseason."I don\'t know why I did it, it was just laying there," Karlsson said. "I didn\'t really think about that (being my last game) and I didn\'t think that you guys (the media) would ever pick that up either, but there\'s a lot of cameras out there."Karlsson has one year remaining on his contract before becoming an unrestricted free agent after next season, and while the Senators say they want to re-sign the 27-year-old he could be moved if the two sides reach a new deal.Ottawa wraps up the season with three road games, but there\'s a chance Karlsson will not make the trip  something he said he hadn\'t given much thought to."I read a lot of things and I don\'t read too much into it, but obviously the word is out there from you guys that it might be my last home game," he said. "But it\'s not something I thought about going into this game and it\'s not something I\'ll probably think about for a while."Copp opened the scoring just 2:42 into the game as he pounced on a rebound in front. Morrissey made it 2-0 with a shot from the point and Wheeler\'s first extended the lead to 3-0 just 21 seconds later.NOTES: Ottawa\'s Mark Stone missed his 12th straight game with a leg injury. ... Winnipeg D Dustin Byfuglien was given the night off.UP NEXTJets: At Montreal on Tuesday night before closing the season with two home games.Senators: At Buffalo on Wednesday night to open a season-ending three-game trip.

HERGEISA, Somaliland   Somalia\'s breakaway northern region of Somaliland declared its independence nearly three decades ago, but despite having its own currency, parliament and military the predominantly Muslim country hasn\'t been recognized by any foreign government.Somaliland President Muse Bihi Abdi is hoping to change that by aligning his country\'s interests with energy-rich Gulf Arab states eager to expand their military footprint in the Horn of Africa along the vital shipping corridor of Bab al-Mandeb, the entryway to the Red Sea for ships from Asia and oil tankers from the Gulf heading to Europe.Speaking to The Associated Press in the capital, Hargeisa, on Tuesday, Abdi defended an agreement that allows the United Arab Emirates to establish a military base in Somaliland."Our government is not so strong and our zone needs to be protected," he said. "I think we need a friendly country to have a cooperation with military security, we need it."Securing the Horn of Africa has become increasingly important for Gulf countries since March 2015, when a Saudi-led coalition launched a war against Iran-allied rebels in Yemen. On Tuesday, the coalition, which includes the UAE, said the rebels attacked a Saudi oil tanker in the Bab al-Mandeb strait, causing minor damage.Abdi declined to disclose how many Emirati troops would be based in Somaliland or when construction of the base will be complete. The lease for the base is for 25 years."Yes, we are allied to the United Arab Emirates and to Saudi (Arabia)," Abdi said."All our business, main assets, are in Dubai. All our imports depend on United Arab Emirates, their ports," he said. "We have relations of business and economic ties with them, so we are allies with them."Abdi, who won elections in November, spoke Tuesday from his office in Somaliland\'s capital of Hergeisa, home to around 1 million people. Somaliland is far more peaceful than Somalia, where the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabab group carries out frequent attacks.Except for a Coca-Cola factory outside the largely impoverished city, there are no visible signs of multinational companies. The city, which moves without traffic lights, is not home to any major international hotel chains, American fast food restaurants or bustling shopping malls.Instead, the country is capitalizing on its strategic location near Bab al-Mandeb.Somaliland signed an agreement last year with one of the world\'s largest port operators, DP World, to operate its Port of Berbera. The agreement with DP World, which is majority-owned by the Dubai government in the UAE, was signed the same year that the UAE\'s plans to build a naval base in Berbera were revealed.It\'s the latest example of how DP World\'s business dealings in East Africa increasingly mirror the UAE\'s military expansion in the region.The UAE, which is also reportedly building up a long-term military presence in Eritrea, is not the only country with troops in East Africa. Turkey opened a military base in Somalia last year. Neighboring Djibouti is home to a U.S. base that launches drone missions over Somalia and Yemen, as well as a Chinese military base and Japan\'s first overseas base since World War II.Last week, Somalia asked for the United Nations Security Council to intervene to stop the UAE from building the military base in Somaliland. Somalia said the agreement between the Gulf state and Somaliland, which it refers to as the "Northwestern Region of Somalia," was made without the consent of Somalia\'s government and is in "clear violation of international law."Somaliland\'s minister of foreign affairs, Saad Ali Shire, said his country\'s alliance with the UAE is a sign of the growing "realization that Somaliland should be recognized.""We feel that we have the right to be recognized. We have the right for self-determination under the U.N. charter," Shire told the AP. "That\'s a fact which I think everybody should recognize, and perhaps the UAE is finally coming around to recognize that fact as well."DP World\'s recent expansion into Somaliland creates an alternative corridor for imports for landlocked Ethiopia, a country of 110 million people and the largest economy in the Horn of Africa. Cargo going to Ethiopia currently constitutes 15 percent of Berbera port\'s operations.DP World holds a 51 percent stake in the port, Somaliland holds a 30 percent stake and Ethiopia holds the remaining 19 percent.DP World operations in Berbera threaten Djibouti\'s near monopoly on Ethiopia\'s imports and exports. Djibouti\'s port provides Ethiopia with more than 95 percent of Ethiopia\'s imports.The deal with Somaliland prompted Djibouti to abruptly end DP World\'s contract for its Doraleh container terminal in February.DP World\'s Berbera operations manager, Ali Ismail Mahamoud, acknowledged that the port is a competitor in East Africa. He spoke to the AP on a recent visit to the port."Whenever you open a port near another port which is close to it, definitely you have to be competitive. (We are) not purely competitive with Djibouti, but I would define it as we have to be competitive," he said.
Janka Nabay, a singer, songwriter and bandleader from Sierra Leone who modernized an ancient tradition called bubu and carried it worldwide, died on Monday in the Kambia District in northern Sierra Leone. He was 54.His American record company, Luaka Bop, said the cause was a stomach illness that had not been diagnosed.During the 1990s, Mr. Nabay took the speedy beat of music that had been heard for centuries in parades and celebrations and transferred it to Western instruments. His songs became hits as civil war tore Sierra Leone apart and were claimed by both sides, although his music increasingly held direct antiwar messages.Mr. Nabay emigrated from Sierra Leone in 2002. Living in New York City, he started a band, the Bubu Gang, that introduced bubu to an international audience.Ahmed Janka Nabay was born on Jan. 5, 1964, in a rural village, Sedu. He moved with his family to a city, Makeni, at 5, and then, at 14, to Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone.As a teenager he began writing politically minded songs about pan-Africanism. He was also a fan of music from abroad, particularly that of Bob Marley and Michael Jackson, and he concentrated on reggae during his 20s, appearing on Sierra Leone radio stations singing reggae with Arabic lyrics.But his more distinctive songs drew on bubu, music heard at celebrations during Sierra Leones Independence Day carnival and during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.Traditional bubu is associated with the Temne people of Sierra Leone. It is music for voices, drums and bamboo trumpets that each play one note (sounding like the syllable bu), hooting in complex patterns of syncopation, akin to the rara music of Haiti and the gaga music of the Dominican Republic. Mr. Nabay traced bubu to pre-Islamic African traditions connected to what he called witchcraft.In the early 1990s, he wrote Dance to the Bubu for a nationwide song contest, with lyrics that proclaimed, Its an ancient style of music, but when you try it you never leave it.The judges appreciated music with local Sierra Leonean roots, and the contest led to Mr. Nabays first recording sessions. In his version of bubu, the patterns of the bamboo horns were transferred to keyboard and guitar, and the momentum of hand percussion was taken over by the rhythm section and a drum machine.During the 1990s, his music spread across Sierra Leone and sold tens of thousands of cassettes as he performed in the countrys largest venues. He sang in Temne and in the Sierra Leonean lingua franca, Krio, along with English and Arabic.The civil war that lasted from 1991 to 2002 in Sierra Leone drove Mr. Nabays songwriting to become more political. One of his mid-1990s hits, Sabanoh, called for the restoration of peaceful civilian control to counter the rebels chaos, declaring, The country belongs to us.In some areas, rebels arrived in villages playing Mr. Nabays music on portable stereos to draw civilians outside to dance, then attacked. They also rewrote his lyrics with their own messages, hijacking his songs as propaganda. At one point, Mr. Nabay and his band were captured in mid-tour and forced to perform for a rebel commander.In 2002, Mr. Nabay used an international tour to leave Sierra Leone behind, moving, by way of Guinea in West Africa, to the United States, where he rebuilt his music.A public-radio producer, Wills Glasspiegel, who heard Mr. Nabays African recordings while producing an Afropop Worldwide program on Sierra Leones music, became an advocate and then his manager. In 2010, the independent True Panther label released four songs that Mr. Nabay had recorded in 2002, before leaving Sierra Leone, as the EP Bubu King.Living in New York City, Mr. Nabay performed at clubs like Pianos, Zebulon and the Knitting Factory often wearing a traditional grass skirt. At first, he used prerecorded backup; then he assembled a Brooklyn-based band, the Bubu Gang, with a Syrian-born bassist and backup singer, Boshra Al Saadi, and members of the indie-rock group Skeletons.Their debut album, En Yay Sah (which translates as Im Scared) was released in 2012 by Luaka Bop. Its music fused bubu with elements of psychedelia, Afro-Caribbean music, electronic dance music and funk. Last year, Luaka Bop released Mr. Nabays second album with the Bubu Gang, Build Music, featuring more songs with English lyrics.In 2017, Mr. Nabay toured Europe for the first time, playing festivals. When the tour ended in August, visa problems prevented him from returning to the United States, and he moved back to Sierra Leone.Mr. Nabay, who lived in Freetown at the time of his death, is survived by his partner, Kadiatu Nabay; and by three children from a previous relationship, Sia Precious Kemoh, Zachariah Osman Nabay and Ahmed Nabay.
GAZA/JERUSALEM   A Palestinian man was killed by Israeli gunfire in Gaza on Tuesday, Palestinian medics said, raising the death toll from clashes along the border to 17, and Israel\'s defence minister warned further protests would be met with similar force.Tens of thousands of Palestinians began a six-week-long protest last Friday in tent encampments set up along the fenced border of the Israeli-blockaded Gaza Strip. They are pressing for a right of return for refugees to the villages and towns where their families lived before 1948 in what is now Israel.Sixteen Palestinians died after being shot by Israeli troops on the first day of the protest, Palestinian medical officials said. The 17th Palestinian killed, 25-year-old Ahmed Omar Arafa, was standing about 50 metres (165 feet) from the fence when he was shot, his father, Omar Arafa, told Reuters."He was standing next to me; he posed no danger to them but they killed him," he said. An Israeli military spokeswoman had no initial information on the latest reported fatality.The deaths occurred in the course of one of the largest Palestinian demonstrations along the 65-km (40-mile) border in years. Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman defended Israel\'s response."I warn (Gaza protesters) against continuing the provocation. We have set clear game rules and we do not intend to change them. Every person who comes close to the fence is endangering their lives," he said on a visit to the border."This was a well-organised provocation by Hamas\'s armed wing in an attempt to harm our sovereignty, to disrupt daily life and to disturb Israelis on their Seder (traditional Passover meal) night. We are doing what we must do."Gaza, a small coastal enclave, has been ruled by Hamas, a Palestinian Islamist movement sworn to Israel\'s destruction, for much of the time since Israeli soldiers and settlers withdrew in 2005 after a 38-year occupation.The military said its troops used live fire only against people trying to sabotage the fence or rolling burning tyres and throwing rocks. Palestinian organisers said they had called for a peaceful protest and Hamas denied that its fighters had fired on Israeli forces, using the crowds as cover, though it said five of the dead were members of its armed wing.Lieberman has characterised most of those killed last week as "terrorists that we know well who are active in the armed wing of Hamas and Islamic Jihad. They were not innocent civilians who were part of a civil protest".In Gaza, protesters have begun gathering thousands of mirrors which they hope to use to blind Israeli soldiers on the other side of the fence. The protesters say they also intend to use laser pointers to distract Israeli army sharpshooters.We were saddened by the martyrdom of 16 of us, some of them we knew as friends. This Friday we shall rise to challenge the occupation which killed them, and show them we are not afraid, said Issa Abu Jamea\', 29, from Khan Younis in Gaza\'s south.He said he had taken part in protests every Friday since U.S. President Donald Trump\'s Dec. 6 decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel\'s capital, and to move the U.S. Embassy to the city. Its eastern half was taken by Israel in a 1967 war and is wanted by Palestinians for the capital of a future state.FRIDAY OF TYRESPalestinian organisers said they expect the number of participants to again swell to tens of thousands on Friday.Riding on donkey carts and rickshaws, protesters scoured towns and villages across Gaza on Tuesday collecting old tyres from mechanics\' shops, fields and garbage dumps. The thick, black smoke emitted by burning tyres can reduce the effects of tear gas used by Israel security forces, they say.Abu Jamea\' said that he and his friends had collected about a thousand tyres. The hash tag "Jomaat Al-Kawshook", or "Friday of Tyres", was trending on Twitter."We have prepared mirrors, lasers and tyres to burn ... they will help to distract Israeli snipers and blind them. We aim to protect ourselves and the protesters," Abu Jamea\' said.In Gaza City, Daoud Shehab, a protest organiser who is also spokesman for the militant Islamic Jihad, urged participants to remain peaceful. "We urge our people not to fall for Israeli provocation attempts," said Shebab.The protest action is set to wind up on May 15, when Palestinians mark the Naqba, or Catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands fled or were driven out of their homes during violence that culminated in war in May 1948 between the newly created state of Israel and its Arab neighbours.Israel has long ruled out any right of return, fearing it would lose its Jewish majority.(Writing by Nidal Almughrabi and Ori Lewis, editing by Mark Heinrich)
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:1. WHITE HOUSE SEEKS BILL TO CLOSE IMMIGRATION \'LOOPHOLES\'Trump has been seething over immigration since realizing the major spending bill he signed last month barely funds the "big, beautiful" border wall he has promised his supporters.2. US RAISES PROSPECT OF TRUMP-PUTIN MEETING AT WHITE HOUSEThough no preparations have begun for such a visit, it would be the Russian president\'s first Washington visit in more than a decade.3. NETANYAHU CANCELS DEAL WITH UN TO RESETTLE AFRICAN MIGRANTSThe Israeli prime minister cancels the agreement with the world body after pressure from hawks in his coalition prompted him to suspend it.4. EDUCATORS LEAD RED-STATE REVOLTMany schools will remain closed for a second day in Oklahoma as teachers continue to rally for higher pay and education funding in a rebellion that has hit several GOP-led states.5. \'THAT PERIOD, FOR ME, IS LIKE YESTERDAY\'Martin Luther King Jr.\'s three surviving children have spent much of the past five decades coming to terms with the civil rights leader\'s assassination and legacy.6. IN A CORNER OF SPAIN, A STRUGGLE TO STOP DRUG SMUGGLINGLa Linea de la Concepcion is reeling under an escalating war between authorities and criminal gangs who have turned it into a key entry point for Moroccan cannabis resin into Europe, AP learns.7. WHAT EGYPTIAN ELECTION REVEALEDThe vote for Egypt\'s president produced a surprise runner-up  an unusually large number of invalid ballots, suggesting a possible protest vote against el-Sissi or the election itself.8. JUDGE TO DECIDE IF NAZI \'TROLL STORM\' IS PROTECTED SPEECHA Montana jurist will decide whether a neo-Nazi website publisher has a First Amendment right to unleash a "troll storm" of anti-Semitic and threatening messages against a Jewish family.9. SPOTIFY TO TEST HOW IT PLAYS ON WALL STREETThe No. 1 music streaming service, which has drawn comparisons to Netflix, is about to find out how it plays on the stock market in an unusual IPO.10. VILLANOVA AMONG THE GREATS AFTER NCAA HOOPS WINThe Wildcats beat Michigan 79-62 to become only the fourth program since UCLA to win two titles in the span of three years  joining Duke, Kentucky and Florida.
RIYADH   King Salman reiterated Saudi Arabia\'s support for a Palestinian state after his son and heir apparent said Israelis were entitled to live peacefully on their own land - a rare statement by an Arab leader.The king also emphasized the need to advance the peace process in a phone call with U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday night, made after Israeli security forces killed 16 Palestinians last week during a demonstration along the Israel-Gaza border. The number rose to 17 on Tuesday.King Salman reaffirmed "the kingdom\'s steadfast position toward the Palestinian issue and the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people to an independent state with Jerusalem as its capital", state news agency SPA said on Tuesday.Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas praised King Salman, thanking him for his support."President Abbas expressed his gratitude and appreciation ... for his supportive positions of the Palestinian people, the Palestinian cause and the cause of Jerusalem and its sacred sites," said a statement published by the official Palestinian WAFA news agency.Abbas also praised Saudi Arabia for continuing to support the right of the Palestinian people to establish their independent state with East Jerusalem as its capital, the statement said.The report did not refer to the comments by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in an interview published on Monday by U.S. magazine The Atlantic, which are the latest public sign that ties between Saudi Arabia and Israel may be growing closer.Asked if he believes the Jewish people have a right to a nation-state in at least part of their ancestral homeland, Prince Mohammed was quoted as saying:"I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations."Saudi Arabia, birthplace of Islam and home to its holiest shrines, does not recognize Israel. It has maintained for years that normalizing relations hinges on Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war, territory Palestinians seek for a future state.Increased tension between Riyadh and Tehran has fueled speculation that shared interests may push Saudi Arabia and Israel to work together against what they see as a common Iranian threat.(Reporting By Stephen Kalin; editing by David Stamp and Diane Craft)
ANKARA   A Turkish court on Tuesday jailed nine university students, pending trial, on a charge of spreading terrorist propaganda after they protested against Turkey\'s military offensive in northern Syria, state-run Anadolu news agency said.The protest took place last month when a group of students at Istanbul\'s Bogazici University organised a rally in support of Turkey\'s offensive against the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia in the northern Syrian region of Afrin, and also distributed Turkish delight from a stand on the campus.A rival group of students then staged a counter-rally with a banner that read "Invasion, massacre cannot be marked with Turkish delight", prompting President Tayyip Erdogan to call them "terrorists" and authorities to launch an investigation.Six other students whom prosecutors had also wanted jailed  were provisionally freed pending their trial, Anadolu reported.The prosecutors\' office could not immediately be reached for comment.Prosecutors said the students had acted in line with Kurdish militants and had attempted "to portray the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Armed Forces as forces that were invading and using violence, and therefore engaging in illegitimate actions in the region", the Hurriyet news website reported."TERRORIST STUDENTS"Following the anti-war protest, Erdogan said the students would not be allowed to study at university."We will find these terrorist students by means of footage and will do what is necessary. We won\'t give these terrorist, communist youths the right to study at these universities," Erdogan said last month."We will catch those marginals by the ear and hurl them to the ground," he told members of his ruling AK Party.The chairman of the main opposition Republican People\'s Party (CHP), Kemal Kilicdaroglu, said it was not the president\'s place to determine the fate of students."Who are you not to let them study? Are universities your father\'s property? Universities are not designed from the top of the state," Kilicdaroglu said, likening Erdogan to a dictator.Last month Turkish forces drove the YPG militia, considered by Ankara a terrorist organisation linked to the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), from the town of Afrin after a nearly two-month operation.Since the start of the offensive, Turkish authorities have detained hundreds of people for social media posts and protests criticising the operation.Erdogan also vowed to strip the word "Turkish" from the name of the 83,000-member Turkish Medical Association (TTB) after the group publicly opposed the military campaign.(Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu and Ece Toksabay in Ankara, Ali Kucukgocmen in Istanbul; Editing by Daren Butler and Gareth Jones)

RIYADH   Saudi Arabia\'s crown prince said in a published interview that Israelis are entitled to live peacefully on their own land, another public sign of an apparent thawing in ties between the two countries.Asked if he believes the Jewish people have a right to a nation state in at least part of their ancestral homeland, Mohammed bin Salman was quoted by U.S. magazine The Atlantic as saying:"I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations."Saudi Arabia - birthplace of Islam and site of its holiest shrines - does not officially recognize Israel. It has maintained for years that normalizing relations hinges on an Israeli withdrawal from Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war - territory Palestinians seek for a future state."We have religious concerns about the fate of the holy mosque in Jerusalem and about the rights of the Palestinian people. This is what we have. We don\'t have any objection against any other people," said Prince Mohammed, who is touring the United States to drum up investments and support for his efforts to contain Iranian influence.Increased tension between Tehran and Riyadh has fueled speculation that shared interests may push Saudi Arabia and Israel to work together against what they regard as a common Iranian threat."There are a lot of interests we share with Israel and if there is peace, there would be a lot of interest between Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries," Prince Mohammed added.The German foreign ministry welcomed his comments and ministry officials underscored the Saudi role in pushing for an Arab peace initiative as early as 2002."The prince\'s comments are very close to the position of Germany and the EU: We need a two-state solution and serious negotiations to achieve that," said one ministry official. "Israelis and Palestinians have a right to peaceful lives in their own country."Israeli-Palestinian peace talks envisaging a Palestinian state alongside Israel have been frozen since 2014.Saudi Arabia opened its air space for the first time to a commercial flight to Israel last month, which an Israeli official hailed as historic following two years of efforts.In November, an Israeli cabinet member disclosed covert contacts with Saudi Arabia, a rare acknowledgment of long-rumoured secret dealings which Riyadh still denies.Saudi Arabia condemned U.S. President Donald Trump\'s move to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel last year. But Arab  officials told Reuters at the time that Riyadh appears to be on board with a broader U.S. strategy for an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan still in its early phases of development.(Reporting by Stephen Kalin in Riyadh and  Sabine Siebold in Berlin; Editing by Mark Heinrich)
ZAGREB, Croatia   The Croatian president thanks Argentina for taking in notorious pro-Nazi war criminals after World War II. In Bulgaria, a top politician calls the country\'s Roma minority "ferocious humanoids." And Hungary\'s prime minister declares the "color" of Europeans should not mix with that of Africans or Arabs.Ever since WWII, such views were taboo in Europe, confined to the far-right fringes. Today they are openly expressed by mainstream political leaders in parts of Central and Eastern Europe, part of a populist surge in the face of globalization and mass migration."There is something broader going on in the region which has produced a patriotic, nativist, conservative discourse through which far-right ideas managed to become mainstream," said Tom Junes, a historian with the Human and Social Studies Foundation in Sofia, Bulgaria.In many places, the shift to the right has included the rehabilitation of Nazi collaborators, often fighters or groups celebrated as anti-communists or defenders of national liberation. In Hungary and Poland, governments are also eroding the independence of courts and the media, prompting human rights groups to warn that democracy is threatened in parts of a region that threw off Moscow-backed dictatorships in 1989.Some analysts say Russia is covertly helping extremist groups in order to destabilize Western liberal democracies. While that claim is difficult to prove with concrete evidence, it\'s clear that the growth of radical groups has pushed moderate conservative European parties to the right to hold onto votes.That\'s the case in Hungary, where Prime Minister Viktor Orban and his Fidesz party  the front-runner in the country\'s April 8 parliamentary election  have drawn voters with an increasingly strident anti-migrant campaign.Casting himself as the savior of a white Christian Europe being overrun by Muslims and Africans, Orban has insisted that Hungarians don\'t want their "own color, traditions and national culture to be mixed by others."Orban, who is friendly with Russian President Vladimir Putin, was also the first European leader to endorse Donald Trump in the 2016 U.S. presidential race. In 2015 he erected a razor-wire fence at Hungary\'s borders to stop migrants from crossing, and has since been warning in apocalyptic terms that the West faces racial and civilizational "suicide" if the migration continues.Orban has also been obsessed with demonizing financier and philanthropist George Soros, falsely portraying the Hungarian-born Holocaust survivor as an advocate of uncontrolled immigration into Europe. In what critics denounce as a state-sponsored conspiracy theory with anti-Semitic overtones, the Hungarian government spent $48.5 million on anti-Soros ads in 2017, according to the investigative news site atlatszo.hu.In a recent speech, Orban denounced Soros in language that echoed anti-Semitic clichs of the 20th century. He said Hungary\'s foes "do not believe in work, but speculate with money; they have no homeland, but feel that the whole world is theirs."In Poland, xenophobic language is also on the rise. When nationalists held a large Independence Day march in November and some carried banners calling for a "White Europe" and "Clean Blood," the interior minister called it a "beautiful sight."Poland\'s government has also been embroiled in a bitter dispute with Israel and Jewish organizations over a national law that would criminalize blaming Poland for Germany\'s Holocaust crimes. Critics say that could allow a whitewash of history.With tensions running high, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki listed "Jewish perpetrators" as among those who were responsible for the Holocaust. He also visited the Munich grave of an underground Polish resistance group that had collaborated with the Nazis.In the same vein, an official tapped to create a major new history museum in Warsaw has condemned the postwar tribunals in Nuremberg, Germany  where top Nazis were judged  as "the greatest judicial farce in the history of Europe." Arkadiusz Karbowiak said the Nuremberg trials were only "possible because of the serious role of Jews" in their organization, and called them "the place where the official religion of the Holocaust was created."Across the region, Roma, Muslims, Jews and other minorities have expressed anxiety about the future. But nationalists insist they are not promoting hate. They argue they\'re defending their national sovereignty and their Christian way of life against globalization and the large-scale influx of migrants who don\'t assimilate.The Balkans, bloodied by ethnic warfare in the 1990s, are also seeing a rise of nationalism, particularly in Serbia and Croatia. Political analysts there believe that Russian propaganda is spurring old ethnic resentments.Croatia has steadily drifted to the right since joining the EU in 2013. Some officials there have denied the Holocaust or reappraised Croatia\'s ultranationalist, pro-Nazi Ustasha regime, which killed tens of thousands of Jews, Serbs, Roma and anti-fascist Croats in wartime prison camps.On a recent visit to Argentina, Croatian President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic thanked the country for providing post-war refuge to Croats who had belonged to the Ustasha regime.The world\'s top Nazi hunter, Efraim Zuroff of the Wiesenthal center, called her statement "a horrific insult to victims." Grabar-Kitarovic later said she had not meant to glorify a totalitarian regime.Meanwhile in Bulgaria, which holds the EU\'s rotating presidency, the government includes a far-right alliance, the United Patriots, whose members have given Nazi salutes and slurred minorities. Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov has called the country\'s Roma minority "ferocious humanoids" whose women "have the instincts of street dogs."Junes, the researcher, says even though hate crimes are on the rise in Bulgaria, the problem has raised little concern in the West because the country keeps its public debt in check and is not challenging the fundamental Western consensus, unlike Poland and Hungary."Bulgaria isn\'t rocking the boat," Junes said. "They play along with Europe."While populist and far-right groups are also growing in parts of Western Europe, countries like Poland and Hungary are proving more vulnerable to the same challenges, said Peter Kreko, director of Political Capital Institute, a Budapest-based think tank."In younger, weaker, more fragile democracies," Kreko said, "right-wing populism is more dangerous because it can weaken and even demolish the democratic institutions."____Gera reported from Warsaw; Pablo Gorondi contributed from Budapest.
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip   Israel\'s defense minister said Tuesday that the military will not change its tough response to Hamas-led mass protests near Gaza\'s border with Israel, warning that those who approach the border are putting their lives at risk.Avigdor Lieberman spoke near Gaza, where 18 Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire Friday, the first day of what Hamas says will be six weeks of intermittent border protests against a stifling blockade of the territory.On Tuesday, a 25-year-old Gaza man was killed by Israeli fire as he threw stones in the area of the border fence, Gaza\'s Health Ministry said.Lieberman\'s comments raised the possibility of more bloodshed this Friday, when another mass protest is expected.The Palestinians\' ambassador at the United Nations, Riyad Mansour, appealed to the U.N. Security Council for immediate international protection for Palestinian civilians, especially in Gaza. He charged in a letter to the council that Israel has adopted "a shoot-to-kill policy" during what he called peaceful protests.Mansour strongly backed Secretary-General Antonio Guterres\' call for an independent investigation of the killings and accused Israel of "intentionally, grossly and systematically" violating its legal obligation to protect civilians.The international group Human Rights Watch accused Lieberman and other senior Israeli officials Tuesday of unlawfully calling for the use of live fire against Palestinian protesters who posed no imminent threat to life.Last Friday, thousands of Palestinians marched near the border fence between Israel and Gaza, many gathering around tent encampments set up several hundred meters (yards) from the frontier. Smaller groups moved closer to the fence, throwing stones, hurling firebombs or burning tires. Israeli troops were lined up on the other side of the fence, including snipers perched on high earth embankments overlooking Gaza.Palestinian health officials have said 18 Palestinians were killed that day, including 13 involved in the mass protest, making it the bloodiest day in Gaza since the 2014 war between Israel and the Islamic militant group Hamas.More than 750 Palestinians were wounded by Israeli fire, according to Gaza health officials. Mansour told the Security Council the number of wounded was over 1,500, including more than 750 by live ammunition and 148 by rubber-coated steel bullets.The Israeli military has claimed, without elaborating, that it believes the figure was overblown and that dozens, at most, were wounded by live rounds.Israeli officials have said soldiers in the border area had orders to target the "main instigators" and those who approach the border.In Tuesday\'s violence, the military said dozens of Palestinians had participated in "riots" at four locations along the border, and troops had fired toward suspects who damaged the border fence. It issued a short video showing five youths approaching the fence. One of them pounds the fence with a club, while two others briefly cross through before jumping back to the other side.Human Rights Watch said Israel has presented no evidence that rock-throwing or other violence seriously threatened the soldiers on the other side of the fence."The high number of deaths and injuries was the foreseeable consequence of granting soldiers leeway to use lethal force outside of life-threatening situations in violation of international norms, coupled with the longstanding culture of impunity within the Israeli army for serious abuses," the group said.Ismail Radwan, a senior Hamas official, said mass protests would continue as planned, despite Lieberman\'s threats.He said the Israeli defense minister\'s latest comments should be seen as "more evidence of a war crime he (Lieberman) committed in Gaza last Friday."Lieberman has rejected international calls for an independent investigation.On Tuesday, he warned Hamas against what he called "continued provocation.""We have established clear ground rules and we do not intend to change them," Lieberman said during a visit to an Israeli communal farm near Gaza. "Anyone who approaches the border is putting his life in danger."Israel\'s military spokesman, Brig. Gen. Ronen Manelis, has portrayed stone-throwing, tire burning and other actions by protesters near the border fence as "acts of terror."Briefing journalists Monday, he did not say in what circumstances protesters were killed Friday or why lethal force is justified if soldiers are not in apparent imminent danger. He argued that there would have been far more bloodshed in the event of a mass border breach.In Gaza, protest organizers also prepared for the next confrontation.Plans were circulated on social media to burn large numbers of tires on Friday, in hopes that thick black smoke would block the view of Israeli snipers. Others suggested trying to disrupt the vision of soldiers with mirrors.In the town of Khan Younis in southern Gaza, teenagers collected old tires from repair shops, loading them onto three-wheelers. About 150 tires of all sizes were piled up at a traffic circle Tuesday, waiting to be transported to the nearby tent camp.The planned protests seem to be the last hope for Hamas to try to break a border blockade imposed by Israel and Egypt in 2007, when the group seized Gaza from Western-backed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Two other blockade-busting strategies  war with Israel and reconciliation with Abbas  have failed.Hamas has said the border protests would continue until May 15, the 70th anniversary of Israel\'s creation. Palestinians mourn the date as the anniversary of their "nakba," or "catastrophe," when hundreds of thousands were uprooted from their communities in what is now Israel.Two-thirds of Gaza\'s 2 million people are descendants of refugees. Life in Gaza has become increasingly harsh after more than a decade of closures, with residents enduring daily power outages lasting hours.Hamas has said the protests would culminate in a "March of Return," implying the demonstrators would at some point try cross the border fence into Israeli territory.However, Hamas officials have not specifically called for a mass breach of the fence.___Associated Press writer Fares Akram reported this story in Gaza City and AP writer Karin Laub reported from Ramallah, West Bank. AP writer Mohammed Daraghmeh in Ramallah contributed to this report.
Today in HistoryToday is Tuesday, April 3, the 93rd day of 2018. There are 272 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On April 3, 1968, civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. delivered what turned out to be his final speech, telling a rally of striking sanitation workers in Memphis, Tennessee, that "I\'ve been to the mountaintop" and "seen the Promised Land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight that we, as a people, will get to the Promised Land!" (About 20 hours later, King was felled by an assassin\'s bullet at the Lorraine Motel.)On this date:In 1776, George Washington received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Harvard College.In 1860, the legendary Pony Express began carrying mail between St. Joseph, Missouri, and Sacramento, California. (The delivery system lasted only 18 months before giving way to the transcontinental telegraph.)In 1882, outlaw Jesse James was shot to death in St. Joseph, Missouri, by Robert Ford, a member of James\' gang.In 1936, Bruno Hauptmann was electrocuted in Trenton, New Jersey, for the kidnap-murder of Charles Lindbergh Jr.In 1942, during World War II, Japanese forces began their final assault on Bataan against American and Filipino troops who surrendered six days later; the capitulation was followed by the notorious Bataan Death March.In 1946, Lt. Gen. Masaharu Homma, the Japanese commander held responsible for the Bataan Death March, was executed by firing squad outside Manila.In 1948, President Harry S. Truman signed the Marshall Plan, designed to help European allies rebuild after World War II and resist communism.In 1965, the United States launched the SNAP-10A nuclear power system into Earth orbit; it was the first nuclear reactor sent into space.In 1978, at the Academy Awards, Woody Allen\'s "Annie Hall" was named best picture of 1977; its co-star, Diane Keaton, won best actress while Richard Dreyfuss was honored as best actor for "The Goodbye Girl."In 1985, the landmark Hollywood Brown Derby restaurant closed after 56 years in business.In 1996, Unabomber Theodore Kaczynski (kah-ZIHN\'-skee) was arrested at his remote Montana cabin. An Air Force jetliner carrying Commerce Secretary Ron Brown and American business executives crashed in Croatia, killing all 35 people aboard.In 2003, Atlantic magazine editor Michael Kelly, 46, became the first American journalist to be killed while covering the Iraq war.Ten years ago: NATO allies meeting in Bucharest, Romania, gave President George W. Bush strong support for a missile defense system in Europe and urged Moscow to drop its angry opposition to the program. Model Naomi Campbell was arrested at London Heathrow Airport after getting into an altercation with police during a dispute about lost luggage. (Campbell was later sentenced to 200 hours of community service and fined 2,300 pounds.) Ohio State defeated Massachusetts, 92-85, for the National Invitation Tournament title.Five years ago: The White House announced President Barack Obama would return 5 percent of his salary each month to the Treasury in a show of solidarity with federal workers smarting from government-wide spending cuts. Palestinian militants launched several rockets into southern Israel and Israeli aircraft struck targets in the Gaza Strip in the heaviest exchange of fire between the sides since a cease-fire ended a major flare-up the previous year. Oscar-winning screenwriter and award-winning novelist Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, 85, died in New York.One year ago: A suicide bombing aboard a subway train in St. Petersburg, Russia, left 16 people dead and wounded more than 50; authorities identified the bomber as a 22-year old Kyrgyz-born Russian national. A divided Senate Judiciary Committee panel voted 11-9 along party lines to favorably recommend Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch to the full Senate. The NHL announced it would not participate in the 2018 Winter Olympics in South Korea. North Carolina scored the last eight points for a 71-65 win over Gonzaga and an NCAA title.Today\'s Birthdays: Actress-singer Doris Day is 96. Conservationist Dame Jane Goodall is 84. Actor William Gaunt is 81. Songwriter Jeff Barry is 80. Actor Eric Braeden is 77. Actress Marsha Mason is 76. Singer Wayne Newton is 76. Singer Tony Orlando is 74. Comedy writer Pat Proft is 71. Folk-rock singer Richard Thompson is 69. Country musician Curtis Stone (Highway 101) is 68. Blues singer-guitarist John Mooney is 63. Rock musician Mick Mars (Motley Crue) is 62. Actor Alec Baldwin is 60. Actor David Hyde Pierce is 59. Rock singer John Thomas Griffith (Cowboy Mouth) is 58. Comedian-actor Eddie Murphy is 57. Rock singer-musician Mike Ness (Social Distortion) is 56. Rock singer Sebastian Bach is 50. Rock musician James MacDonough is 48. Olympic gold medal ski racer Picabo Street is 47. Actress Jennie Garth is 46. Actor Jamie Bamber is 45. Actor Adam Scott is 45. Christian rock musician Drew Shirley (Switchfoot) is 44. Comedian Aries Spears is 43. Actor Matthew Goode is 40. Actress Cobie Smulders is 36. Rock-pop singer Leona Lewis is 33. Actress Amanda Bynes is 32. Actress-comedian Rachel Bloom is 31. Actress Hayley Kiyoko is 27.Thought for Today: "Our firmest convictions are apt to be the most suspect, they mark our limitations and our bounds. Life is a petty thing unless it is moved by the indomitable urge to extend its boundaries."  Jose Ortega y Gasset, Spanish philosopher (1883-1955).
MEMPHIS, Tenn.   A half century after the assassination of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., U.S. civil rights leaders say they are fearful President Donald Trump could reverse progress made on civil rights in the United States since King\'s death.The racism that King\'s leadership helped subdue has returned, said E. Lynn Brown, a former associate of King\'s who is bishop of the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church near Memphis, Tennessee, pointing to a resurgence of white supremacists since Trump launched his campaign for president."They were afraid to show their ugly heads in a prominent way. Now, Trump has given them a voice and created a climate where they are not afraid to show their ugly heads," Brown said.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.King died of an assassin\'s bullet in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 4, 1968, ending his leadership of a nonviolent campaign for equal rights for African-Americans. His death shook the United States in a year that would also bring race riots, violent anti-war demonstrations and the assassination of presidential candidate Robert Kennedy.To be sure, Trump praised King in glowing terms upon the celebration of King\'s birthday in January, and the president has pointed to historically low unemployment for African-Americans as evidence that blacks are benefiting from his presidency.Black leaders were proud to have Barack Obama as president and some have lamented that Trump succeeded him.The maverick Republican has drawn criticism for praising pro-Confederate demonstrators in Charlottesville, Virginia, last August as "some very fine people." He has also picked Twitter fights with black athletes and appointed few minorities to high office.Some conservative African-Americans have seen the critique of Trump as unfair, saying white supremacists, neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan existed while Obama was president."We have to be very careful at pointing fingers at the White House when in fact racial progress happens at our house," said U.S. Senator Tim Scott, a Republican from South Carolina.Even so, Scott criticized Trump for his comments after Charlottesville as unhelpful but said the history of race relations was unrelated to the occupant of the White House."We\'re too quick to say that someone is racist if we don\'t hear in their words what we want to hear," said Ward Connerly, a conservative African-American who has long fought against racial preferences for minorities. "There are many things I think you can say about Trump, but I don\'t think that he\'s a racist."Still, some civil rights leaders have not forgiven Trump for his reaction to the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, in which white nationalists demonstrated to preserve pro-slavery monuments and neo-Nazis chanted anti-Semitic slogans.After a white nationalist killed a counter-demonstrator when he drove his car into a crowd, Trump said there was blame "on many sides.""When I heard Mr. Trump say there were good people, some good people on both sides, and saw the violence in Charlottesville, it made me cry. I really cried," said U.S. Representative John Lewis, a Democrat from Georgia who endured life-threatening injuries as a civil rights leader in the 1960s."But it also made me more determined to do all I could to help our country move forward," Lewis said.(Reporting by Kia Johnson; Additional reporting by Kevin Fogarty and Daniel Trotta; Writing by Daniel Trotta; Editing by Frank McGurty and Chris Reese)
WEYMOUTH, Mass.  Kyle Corkum imagines a smart city with futuristic amenities like driverless shuttle services, heated sidewalks and a super-resilient energy grid that keeps humming through the harshest of storms.As chief executive of LStar Ventures, a developer of planned communities, he has a chance to build the neighborhood of his dreams from the ground up on the site of a long-shuttered naval air station in this town just 12 miles south of Bostons booming technology hub.LStar, based in Raleigh, N.C., has enlisted General Electric as its partner. Because they are starting from scratch, Mr. Corkum said, the companies can embed smart technology into the energy, water, lighting and transportation systems that will serve the community.The project comes at a time when the tech industry is under intense scrutiny. Facebook is struggling with revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm, improperly harvested private information from 50 million of the social networks users. And Ubers travails include a pedestrian death caused by one of its autonomous vehicles last month.Still, LStar is pushing ahead with the smart city, called Union Point. Plans include thousands of housing units and millions of square feet of high-tech commercial space on about 1,500 acres that extend into the neighboring towns of Rockland and Abington. The communitys glass towers, public plazas, clustered housing, scattered parks and retail zones will be contained within 500 acres, leaving the rest as dedicated open space.So far, the community consists of about 1,200 occupied single-family homes, townhouses and apartments, as well as a nearly completed $28 million sports complex with a miniature replica of Fenway Park. A cavernous aircraft hangar will be renovated for use as the centerpiece for a downtown district with shops, restaurants and open spaces with public programming.General Electric will use Union Point as a laboratory for testing new products and as a showroom for working systems. Eric Gebhardt, the strategic technology officer at GE Power, said the communitys energy plan will include micro grid technology, renewable generation and power storage. The company will also install intelligent lighting  streetlights with sensors that can track sound, light and other conditions. The data can be used to monitor traffic, help drivers find parking spaces and alert law enforcement if a gun is fired.G.E. has piloted some of its smart products in existing cities, but Union Point is an unusual opportunity because most of the infrastructure does not exist yet and the developer is open to experimentation, Mr. Gebhardt said.LStar plans to open an innovation center in the air stations old power plant. The center has expressed an interest in featuring an interactive planning tool developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology City Science Group called CityScope, which could aid in Union Points evolution by allowing users to visualize and explore trade-offs around factors like density, transportation and walkability, said David Rose, a researcher and lecturer at MITs Media Lab.LStar wants the center to be a showcase for what the city could be, a place to monitor what it is becoming, and a place to ask existential questions like, Could it be more inclusive, say, or energy efficient? Mr. Rose said.LStar also has an agreement with Optimus Ride, an autonomous vehicle start-up in Boston, to set up a self-driving vehicle service at Union Point. The company is already testing its electric vehicles at the property.Union Points first commercial tenant is expected this spring, when Prodrive Technologies, a Dutch company that develops and manufactures products for the automotive, medical and other industries, will break ground on its 60,000-square-foot United States headquarters. The sites proximity to Boston, access to commuter rail service and ample room for expansion were crucial to the firms location decision, said Roy Willems, the companys general manager of United States operations. He said Prodrive expected to build a second 200,000-square-foot building within three years, and increase its work force to roughly 300 people.LStar had to persuade the three host communities to approve critical zoning changes before it could move forward with the project. They also granted the developer considerable latitude over the design and layout of the community, which will take shape over 15 to 20 years.The three towns recognized an opportunity to do something quite extraordinary on a site where previous development plans stalled, said David P. Manfredi, a founding principal at Elkus Manfredi Architects, which helped create the master plan for Union Point. This is an alternative to what could have been suburban sprawl.Union Point promises to bring badly needed tax revenue to Weymouth, said the towns mayor, Robert L. Hedlund. Its the commercial build-out that were lusting after, he said.Still, similarly ambitious smart city projects have proved perilous. Mr. Rose cited Songdo, a smart city nearing completion in South Korea, as a prime example. The city boasts advanced connectivity, but it has so far failed to meet expectations in attracting international businesses and residents.What they got wrong was any sort of sense of streetscape, said Mr. Rose, who has visited Songdo. Theres no sense of patina, no authentic street life. Its super sterile. It was built as this fantasy of the future, but its a place that humans dont want to occupy.The integration of technology into urban planning has prompted questions about how the data being collected will be used. In Toronto, for example, Sidewalk Labs, a subsidiary of Alphabet, the parent company of Google, attracted considerable publicity when it was selected last year to help create a smart neighborhood of sorts in a waterfront district called Quayside. Some local officials and critics are questioning whether the deal gives too much authority to Sidewalk Labs without putting limitations on Googles collection and use of data.The need for greater regulation of driverless vehicles has also come up for debate after the death last month of a woman who was struck by one of Ubers self-driving cars in Tempe, Ariz.Very few local governments have thought through the long list of public- and private-sector values and concerns that should be deployed to constrain the use of autonomous cars, as well as the technologies being used to monitor city streets, said Susan Crawford, a Harvard Law School professor. Once youve given a developer license to deploy total surveillance, with no public limitations, youre done.LStar has considerable leeway to test technologies at Union Point. The developer is purposely holding on to its roads, rather than asking for them to be made public ways, to maintain flexibility in testing autonomous vehicles, lighting and other technologies, said Robert Luongo, Weymouths director of planning and community development.If these were public ways, we might not be able to give them that flexibility, he said.Mr. Corkum said retaining ownership of the roads would enable them to play with designs for amenities like drop-off areas for driverless shuttles and heated sidewalks. Its better for us to stay in this testing phase until we have good workable solutions, he said.State oversight of autonomous vehicles applies only once there is public use, he said. Even then, the rules are vague. Ryan Chin, the chief executive of Optimus Ride, said his company would adhere to the same high-level safety standards and testing protocols at Union Point that it followed for testing driverless cars in Bostons Seaport neighborhood.As for privacy concerns, Mr. Corkum said that he believed in setting boundaries on data collection and use. There is value in using technology to improve quality of life by, for instance, alleviating traffic jams, but he said he was wary of falling prey to a preoccupation with optimization.The company is working with law firms and consultants on operating guidelines for gathering and anonymizing data and ensuring it cannot be hacked or used to invade privacy, he said.I dont like the Big Brother notion that we know everything about you, he said. We will use data for the benefit of the group, not in a way to leverage the group.
ANKARA   Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday he hoped a planned meeting of the global chemical weapons watchdog would help to defuse a major diplomatic row triggered by the poisoning of a former Russian double agent in England.Britain has blamed Russia for the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia with a military-grade nerve agent in the English city of Salisbury on March 4. Moscow denies any involvement and has accused London of whipping up anti-Russian hysteria in the West.The Skripal case has plunged East-West relations into their worst crisis since the Cold War, with Britain and its allies expelling around 130 Russian diplomats and Moscow responding with its own expulsions.At Moscow\'s request, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) will hold a special session on Wednesday in the Hague on the Salisbury poisoning."We have raised 20 questions for discussion (at the meeting). I hope that during this discussion a final line on what has happened will be drawn," Putin told a news conference during a visit to the Turkish capital Ankara.Moscow has said it wants to take part in the official British investigation into the poisoning."We are interested in a full-fledged investigation. We want to be allowed into this investigation and we count on receiving relevant materials as the issue involves citizens of the Russian Federation," Putin said.The OPCW\'s executive council which will meet on Wednesday has 41 members, including Russia and Britain. Any decisions must be approved by two thirds of members, which is generally difficult to achieve.Diplomats say Russia will repeat its wish to be involved in the testing of the Salisbury samples and that it will otherwise not accept the outcome of testing done by the OPCW laboratories.NOVICHOKEarlier on Tuesday, the head of Britain\'s military research centre said it had so far been unable to tell whether the nerve agent, identified as Novichok, had been produced in Russia."I want to add that according to international experts\' data there are around 20 countries capable of producing such neuro-paralytic substances," Putin said.British counter-terrorism police say they believe Skripal, 66, and his 33-year-old daughter were poisoned with Novichok - an agent first developed by the Soviet military - that had been left on the front door of their home in Salisbury.Putin, who won another six-year term in a presidential election last month, said he had learnt about the poisoning via the media and had been surprised by the pace of what he called an anti-Russian campaign unleashed by Britain.Putin\'s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, told reporters in Ankara that Britain\'s version of who was responsible for the poisoning "will not be confirmed anyway because it is impossible to confirm it"."Indeed this is a long story, the insanity has gone too far," Peskov added.(Reporting by Denis Pinchuk in Ankara; Additional reporting by Anthony Deutch in Amsterdam; Writing by Andrey Ostroukh; Editing by Gareth Jones)
LONDON   The head of Britain\'s military research center said on Tuesday it was unable yet to say whether the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned a Russian double-agent last month had been produced in Russia."We were able to identify it as Novichok, to identify that it was military-grade nerve agent," Gary Aitkenhead, chief executive of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down in England, told Sky News."We have not identified the precise source, but we have provided the scientific info to government who have then used a number of other sources to piece together the conclusions you have come to."However, he confirmed the substance required "extremely sophisticated methods to create, something only in the capabilities of a state actor".He added: "we are continuing to work to help to provide additional information that might help us get closer to [the source] but we haven\'t yet been able to do that."Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.After the first known use of a military-grade nerve agent on European soil since World War Two, Britain blamed Russian President Vladimir Putin for the attempted murder, and the West has expelled around 130 Russian diplomats.Armin Laschet, a conservative ally of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, said the comment raised questions about Britain\'s drive to persuade allies to expel Russian diplomats."If one forces nearly all NATO countries into solidarity, shouldn\'t one have certain evidence? Regardless of what one thinks about Russia, my study of international law taught me a different way to deal with other states," Laschet, premier of the state of North Rhine-Westphlia, said on Twitter.Aitkenhead said the British government had "other inputs" it could use to determine the origin of the nerve agent, some of them intelligence-based.He reiterated that the substance could not have come from Porton Down.Russia\'s EU ambassador Vladimir Chizhov noted in an interview with the BBC last month that the British research lab is only eight miles (11 km) from Salisbury, insinuating that may have been the source.A government spokesperson said on Tuesday: "We have been clear from the very beginning that our world leading experts at Porton Down identified the substance used in Salisbury as a Novichok, a military grade nerve agent."This is only one part of the intelligence picture. As the Prime Minister (Theresa May) has set out ... this includes our knowledge that within the last decade, Russia has investigated ways of delivering nerve agents probably for assassination  and as part of this program has produced and stockpiled small quantities of Novichoks; Russias record of conducting state-sponsored assassinations; and our assessment that Russia views former intelligence officers as targets."Skripal\'s daughter Yulia is getting better after spending three weeks in critical condition due to the nerve toxin attack at her father\'s home in Salisbury, the hospital where she is being treated said last Thursday.Her father remained in a critical but stable condition.(Reporting by Andy Bruce; editing by Stephen Addison and Richard Balmforth)
ANKARA, Turkey   Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Tuesday that his country\'s plan to purchase Russia\'s long-range missile defense system is a "done deal," brushing aside concerns from some NATO allies.Erdogan appeared at a joint news conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who was in Ankara for his first foreign visit since his March 18 re-election. Both the defense system agreement and Putin\'s visit underscore the intensifying ties between Turkey and Russia.In December, they finalized a deal for Turkey to purchase Russia\'s long-range S-400 missile defense system, raising eyebrows among some of Turkey\'s fellow NATO members."We have made an agreement regarding the S-400s. That subject is closed. It\'s a done deal," Erdogan said.The warming relations between the two countries stand in contrast to the souring relations between Russia and the West over the poisoning in Britain of a Russian ex-spy. Turkey\'s relations with its Western allies also have deteriorated over human rights issues and its military operations against Kurdish militia in Syria.The Turkish leader spoke of "attempts to poison Turkish-Russian cooperation" and added: "Thank God our relations navigated these difficult tests with success. With every failed provocation, our relationship strengthened, just like steel after iron is quenched with water."Putin said Russia will manufacture the S-400 missiles at a quicker pace than initially planned to deliver them more quickly per Ankara\'s request."We have decided to speed up the delivery of those highly efficient systems," he added.Earlier, the two leaders symbolically launched the start of the construction of Turkey\'s first nuclear power plant, which will be built by Russia near the Mediterranean coast at Akkuyu.Putin hailed the project as a symbol of growing cooperation between Russia and Turkey."We face the ambitious goal of launching the first reactor in 2023 to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the foundation of the Republic of Turkey," the Russian leader said. "We agreed with my dear friend, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to do everything necessary to achieve that goal."Erdogan said the power plant would meet 10 percent of Turkey\'s energy needs after all reactors become operational.The Akkuyu plant is being built by Russia\'s nuclear energy agency, Rosatom. The project is estimated to cost $20 billion.Turkey and Russia have put aside their traditional rivalries and differences on regional issues to forge closer ties. Putin and Erdogan have met several times in the past year and regularly speak on the phone.On Wednesday, Putin, Erdogan and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani are expected to hold a summit in the Turkish capital of Ankara to discuss Syria\'s future. The three countries are sponsoring a series of efforts in a bid to end the seven-year war.Their cooperation comes despite having positions on opposing sides in the Syrian conflict. Moscow and Tehran have backed Syrian President Bashar Assad, while Turkey has supported the forces seeking to unseat him.__Associated Press writers Cinar Kiper in Istanbul and Vladimir Isachenkov in Moscow contributed.
KUNDUZ, Afghanistan   Villagers in a Taliban-controlled area of Afghanistan\'s Kunduz province buried dozens of dead on Tuesday, a day after an air strike they said hit a religious gathering but which the government said targeted a meeting of insurgent leaders.Amid conflicting reports of casualty numbers, government officials admitted that a number of civilians had been killed in the strike by Afghan air force helicopters on a village in Dasht-i Archi district where a suspected meeting of Taliban fighters was taking place."The Afghan National Army, based on precise information, tried to destroy it to save the people from great disaster but there are reports that unfortunately civilian casualties were also caused in the attack," President Ashraf Ghani\'s office said in a statement.The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) said in a tweet its investigators were in the area looking into "disturbing reports of serious harm" to civilians.The incident is the latest in a series that have underlined the risks from the increased use of air power under a new U.S. strategy announced last year to try to force the Taliban to the negotiating table.Local villagers said the air force had bombed a ceremony called Dastaar Bandi which celebrates young men completing the memorisation of the Koran, killing dozens of people.Sayed Jaan, a resident of Dasht-i Archi, said he had attended two funerals for a total of almost 40 people."There were two mass graves to bury the victims of the bombing and I took part in both burials. In one grave, 16, and in another, 21. Many were young children," Sayed Jaan said."There were other burials and people were digging graves."Defence Ministry spokesman Mohammad Radmanish told a news conference in Kabul that aerial footage and images showed Taliban gathered in a compound with vehicles and motorbikes, carrying Taliban and Pakistani flags. Half of the victims had suffered gunshot wounds inflicted by the Taliban, he said.A senior Afghan defence ministry official said the attack killed at least 35 Taliban and wounded many more. Government officials circulated a list of 13 names they said were of Taliban commanders killed in the strike.CHILDREN KILLEDThe Taliban, which said on Monday that the strike had killed 150 religious scholars and civilians, repeated a denial that any of their forces had been present."The people of Kunduz have witnessed an attack on a religious school during a meeting which had nothing to do with the mujahedin and the majority of the martyrs are children," it said in a statement responding to Radmanish\'s news conference.A video posted online by the movement showed at least four bodies of children, wrapped in white shrouds. Other images circulated of children and adults being treated in hospital for injuries, but they could not be verified.Kunduz, which the Taliban briefly seized in 2015, was the scene of one of the most serious civilian casualty incidents in the conflict, when U.S. air strikes destroyed a hospital, killing 42 people, most of them patients and medical staff.The city has been considered relatively secure over the past year or two but it remains vulnerable and the Taliban control much of the surrounding province, bordering Tajikistan in the far north of the country.Building up the fledgling government air force has been a priority for the NATO-led Resolute Support training and advisory mission.Last year, more than 10,000 civilians died or were wounded in the war between Afghanistan\'s Western-backed government and the militants, down 9 percent from the previous year, UNAMA said in a report in February.(Reporting by Sardar Razmal in Kunduz; Additional reporting by Hamid Shalizi in KABUL; Writing by Rod Nickel and James Mackenzie; Editing by Robert Birsel and David Stamp)
Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince has said that Israelis have the right to have their own land and that formal relations between Israel and the kingdom could be mutually beneficial.The comments by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in an interview published on Monday reflected the distinctly warmer tone toward Israel adopted recently by the de facto ruler of a powerful Arab country that once opposed Israels right to exist.Saudi Arabia and Israel still have no formal relations, and Saudi leaders have historically criticized the Jewish state for its treatment of the Palestinians and for limiting access to Muslim holy sites in Jerusalem.But the kingdoms stance toward Israel has changed with the rise of Prince Mohammed, who is 32 and is seeking to overhaul Saudi Arabias economy and its place in the world. His words on Monday were actually less harsh toward the Palestinians than reports of his previous statements.Instead of seeing Israel as an enemy, Prince Mohammed has come to view the Jewish state as an attractive regional economic and technological hub as well as a potential partner in the kingdoms cold war with Iran. And part of that is recognizing Israels right to exist, preferably in the context of a peace deal with the Palestinians.I believe that each people, anywhere, has a right to live in their peaceful nation, Prince Mohammed told Jeffrey Goldberg of The Atlantic. I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations.The establishment of formal relations, he said, would benefit both nations, and their neighbors.Israel is a big economy compared to their size and its a growing economy, and of course there are a lot of interests we share with Israel  and if there is peace, there would be a lot of interest between Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries and countries like Egypt and Jordan, he said.Prince Mohammed has a close relationship with the Trump administration, and especially with the presidents son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, whom the president has deputized to try to solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.The details of Mr. Kushners peace plan have yet to be released, but it is widely believed that they are being coordinated with Prince Mohammed to try to get buy-in from the wider Arab world.Small signs of a thaw between Israel and the kingdom have emerged recently. Saudi Arabia allowed a commercial airline flight to Israel to pass through its airspace last month, and many in the region suspect that covert contacts between the two countries have grown, although the kingdom denies this.Reflecting a divide in the Saudi leadership over how to approach Israel, Prince Mohammeds father, King Salman, emphasized Palestinian rights in a phone call with Mr. Trump, the Saudi state news service said on Tuesday.The king restated the kingdoms steadfast position towards the Palestinian issue and the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people to an independent state with Jerusalem as its capital, the king said. He made no mention of Israel.In the interview, Prince Mohammed also played down the extent of anti-Semitism in Saudi society, which has historically been reinforced by government clerics and textbooks.Our country doesnt have a problem with Jews, Prince Mohammed said, adding that the Prophet Muhammad married a Jewish woman and that many Jews work in the kingdom.But like Christians and followers of other non-Islamic faiths, they have not been allowed to build houses of worship or to practice their religion openly.

JAKARTA   An Indonesian soldier was shot dead and two separatist rebels killed in clashes with security forces near the giant Grasberg copper mine in Papua operated by Freeport McMoRan Inc, an Indonesian military spokesman said on Tuesday.A separatist group, however, said that only one of its members had died and that dozens of Indonesian troops were killed in clashes that began on Sunday.Papua has suffered a simmering separatist conflict since it was incorporated into Indonesia after a widely criticized U.N.-backed referendum in 1969 and foreign media access to parts of the province is often difficult or, at times, restricted.Papua Military spokesman Muhammad Aidi said the soldier was killed during a joint military and police operation to "reclaim villages controlled by armed criminal separatists"."It appears (the separatists) were ready for the security forces and so there was a gun fight with the military," Aidi said in a statement.Six villages were still occupied by separatists and indigenous Papuans after more than 1,000 residents were evacuated in November following a string of shootings, he said.Drone footage showed two separatists were killed and dozens wounded in the clash, he said. No civilians were hurt, but separatists torched a house, a school and a hospital, said Aidi.According to the West Papua National Liberation Army (TPNPB), a separatist group, one of its members was shot dead in a clash with Indonesian special forces near Banti village early on Sunday morning.Hendrikus Uwamang, a spokesman for the group, said at least 28 Indonesian security personnel and several guides were also killed in the clash. Fighting continued on Monday and a 10-year-old boy was also killed, when his house was hit by a shell and caught fire, he said.Papua Police chief Boy Rafli Amar was quoted in state media last week as saying attacks by "armed criminals" had become more frequent lately near the Grasberg mine. Amar could not be reached for comment on Tuesday.Members of Indonesia\'s security forces have been accused by rights activists of abducting and torturing Papuans and using deadly force to quell protests.TPNPB, which is linked to the Free Papua Movement (OPM), says it is at war with Indonesian authorities and wants to "destroy" Freeport in an effort to gain sovereignty for the region.President Joko Widodo, after coming to power in 2014, had pledged to speed up development of Papua and ease media restrictions.But while investment has risen and efforts made to address some human rights concerns, activists say foreign journalists continue to be blocked or face obstacles when trying to report there.Jakarta is currently in talks with Freeport over ownership of Grasberg, and hopes to gain a majority stake in the world\'s second-biggest copper mine this month, with the Papua government and a local regency jointly gaining rights to a 10 percent stake.(Reporting by Fergus Jensen and Agustinus Beo Da Costa; Editing by Ed Davies and Manolo Serapio Jr.)


SAN FRANCISCO   Facebook is expanding its response to people using the platform improperly and on Tuesday said it had deleted hundreds of Russian accounts and pages associated with a "troll factory" indicted by U.S. prosecutors for fake activist and political posts in the 2016 U.S. election campaign.Facebook said many of the deleted articles and pages came from Russia-based Federal News Agency, known as FAN, and that the social media company\'s security team had concluded that the agency was technologically and structurally intertwined with the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency.Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg told Reuters in an exclusive interview that the agency "has repeatedly acted to deceive people and manipulate people around the world, and we don\'t want them on Facebook anywhere."The world\'s largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, which worked on then-Republican candidate Donald Trump\'s campaign.The removed accounts and pages were mainly in Russian, and many had little political import, the company said. Previously Facebook focused on taking down fake accounts and accounts spreading fake news.The new policy will include otherwise legitimate content spread by those same actors, Zuckerberg said."It is clear from the evidence that we\'ve collected that those organizations are controlled and operated by" the Internet Research Agency, he added.In February, the agency known as IRA was among three firms and 13 Russians indicted by U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller on charges they conspired to tamper in the presidential campaign and support Trump while disparaging Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.Russian media organization RBC last year reported that FAN and IRA once shared the same street address and had other connections. One of the people that it said made decisions at FAN was indicted by Mueller\'s office, which is investigating U.S. intelligence agency conclusions that Moscow tried to undermine the democratic process. Russia denies interfering in the elections.BAN ACCOUNTSFacebook disclosed in September that Russians used Facebook to meddle in U.S. politics, posting on the social network under false names in the months before and after the 2016 elections.Zuckerberg said on Tuesday that improved machine learning had helped find connections between the latest posts and IRA. He and Facebook security officials said the company would do the same when they find more legitimate content being pushed out by groups exposed as manipulators."Were going to execute and operate under our principles," Zuckerberg said. "We dont allow people to have fake accounts, and if you repeatedly try to set up fake accounts to manipulate things, then our policy is to ban all of your accounts."Zuckerberg said that the standard is high for such retribution toward news organizations and that state-owned media by itself was fine.The company decided to root out as much as it can of IRA, which was involved with posts including sponsoring fake pages that were pro-Trump, pro-border security and protesting police violence against minorities, among other topics.The expanded response could provoke a backlash from Russian internet regulators.Last October, Google followed up on reported connections between FAN and IRA by removing FAN stories from its search index. Media regulator Roskomnadzor asked Google for an explanation, saying that it needed to protect free speech. Google then reinstated FAN, according to reports at the time.Facebook officials said its accounts and pages in question had 1 million unique followers on Facebook and 500,000 on Instagram, mainly in Russia, Ukraine, and nearby countries such as Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.Zuckerberg, who founded Facebook in his college dorm room in 2004, personally kept quiet about the Cambridge Analytica data leak for four days before apologizing and outlining steps that he said would help protect personal data.The 33-year-old billionaire plans to testify before U.S. lawmakers to explain Facebook\'s privacy policies, a first for him, a source said last week, although he has so far not committed to doing the same for UK lawmakers.Britain\'s data protection authority, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and some 37 U.S. state attorneys general are investigating Facebook\'s handling of personal data.Zuckerberg initially downplayed Facebook\'s ability to sway voters, saying days after the U.S. elections that it was a "pretty crazy idea" that fake news stories had an influence.Eventually, though, Facebook\'s security staff came to the conclusion that the social network was being used by spies and other government agents to covertly spread disinformation among rivals and enemies.Critics including U.S. Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, have complained Facebook moved too slowly to investigate and counter information warfare.Facebook stepped up efforts to shutter fake accounts before  a national election last year in France, and has said it will work with election authorities around the world to try to prevent meddling in politics.The company, which is now one of the main ways politicians advertise to voters, plans to start a public archive showing all election-related ads, how much money was spent on each one, the number of impressions each receives and the demographics of the audience reached.Facebook is on track to bring that data to U.S. voters before congressional elections in November, Zuckerberg said on Tuesday. Facebook plans to send postcards by U.S. mail to verify the identities and location of people who want to purchase U.S. election-related advertising.(Reporting by Joseph Menn and David Ingram; additional reporting by Jack Stubbs; editing by Peter Henderson and Grant McCool)
WASHINGTON  The White House said Tuesday night that President Trump planned to deploy the National Guard to the southern border to confront what it called a growing threat of illegal immigrants, drugs and crime from Central America after the president for the third consecutive day warned about the looming dangers of unchecked immigration.Mr. Trumps advisers said Monday that he was readying new legislation to block migrants and asylum seekers, including young unaccompanied children, from entering the United States, opening a new front in the immigration crackdown that he has pressed since taking office. But in remarks on Tuesday that caught some of his top advisers by surprise, he suggested the more drastic approach of sending in the military to do what immigration authorities could not.Speaking to reporters during a news conference with the presidents of three Baltic nations, Mr. Trump described existing immigration laws as lax and ineffective, and called for militarizing the border with Mexico to prevent an influx of Central American migrants he said were ready to stream across it.We have horrible, horrible and very unsafe laws in the United States, Mr. Trump said. We are preparing for the military to secure our border between Mexico and the United States.While the president couched his idea as an urgent response to an onslaught at the nations southern border, the numbers do not point to a crisis. Last year, the number of illegal immigrants caught at the border was the lowest since 1971, said the United States Border Patrol. Still, Mr. Trump seized on what has become an annual seasonal uptick in Central American migrants making their way north to make his case.After the presidents remarks, White House aides struggled for hours to decipher his intentions.Late in the day, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Trump had met with Jim Mattis, the secretary of defense, and members of the national security team to discuss his administrations strategy for dealing with the growing influx of illegal immigration, drugs and violent gang members from Central America, a problem on which she said the president had initially been briefed last week.That strategy, she said, included mobilizing the National Guard  though Ms. Sanders did not say how many troops would be sent or when  and pressing Congress to close what she called loopholes in immigration laws. Also present at the meeting were Jeff Sessions, the attorney general; Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security; Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff.Mr. Trump first began raising new dangers posed by immigration in a series of confusing tweets and public statements that started Sunday and continued on Monday. That prompted White House officials to organize a conference call on Monday afternoon to outline a detailed legislative push they said the president was starting for the new immigration restrictions. Deploying the National Guard was not mentioned during the call.The announcements on Monday and Tuesday appeared to be more about political messaging than practical action. Stung by a backlash from his conservative supporters over his embrace of a trillion-dollar-plus spending measure that did not fund his promised border wall, and lacking a legislative initiative to champion with the approach of midterm congressional elections this fall, Mr. Trump has reverted to the aggressive anti-immigration messaging that powered his presidential campaign and has defined his first year in office.Immigration advocates denounced Mr. Trumps announcement as a political ploy.He cannot get funding for his wall, so instead he irresponsibly misuses our military to save face, Kevin Appleby, the senior director of international migration policy at the Center for Migration Studies of New York.Others said Mr. Trumps sudden declaration was merely an instance of a now-familiar pattern wherein the president reacts angrily to something he sees in the news  in this case, reports of a large group of migrants from Honduras traveling through Mexico with hopes of reaching the United States  and seeks to use it as a cudgel against his political opponents.Some of it is just the guy at the end of the bar yelling his opinions  his gut reaction is to say weve got to send the military, said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates slashing immigration levels. But there may also be an element here of political messaging  and a desire to create problems in November for Democratic candidates who have refused to embrace his policies.Whatever Mr. Trumps motivation, the president floated the idea after days of public stewing about the potential for the group of Honduran migrants to pour into the United States.We have very bad laws for our border, and we are going to be doing some things  Ive been speaking with General Mattis  were going to be doing things militarily, Mr. Trump said Tuesday morning, seated beside the defense secretary at the meeting with Baltic presidents. Until we can have a wall and proper security, were going to be guarding our border with the military. Thats a big step. We really havent done that before, or certainly not very much before.The caravan has been a popular topic on Fox News  the presidents favorite news network  and Mr. Trumps aides have argued that weak immigration policies were luring the migrants to the United States from Central America.The big Caravan of People from Honduras, now coming across Mexico and heading to our Weak Laws Border, had better be stopped before it gets there, he posted Tuesday on Twitter. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!Later, Mr. Trump claimed credit for having pressured Mexican officials during a conversation on Monday to block the group from approaching the United States, in part by threatening to rip up the North American Free Trade Agreement if they refused.Ive just heard that the caravan coming up from Honduras is broken up, and Mexico did that, he said during his meeting with the Baltic leaders. And they did it because, frankly, I said, You really have to do it.A White House official said later that Mr. Trump had not, in fact, spoken with President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico on Monday.While the active-duty military is generally barred by law from carrying out domestic law enforcement functions, such as apprehending people at the border, previous presidents have deployed National Guard troops to act in support roles on the border with Mexico. President Barack Obama sent 1,200 in 2010 and President George W. Bush dispatched 6,000 in 2006, while governors of border states have done the same when faced with large inflows from the south.Mr. Trump has spoken before about launching a military operation to police the border, only to have his aides walk back the remarks amid a backlash from members of his administration and officials in Mexico.Last February, he called his immigration crackdown a military operation, prompting Rex W. Tillerson, then the secretary of state, and Mr. Kelly, then the homeland security secretary, who were visiting Mexico at the time, to push back vigorously. They told their Mexican counterparts and reporters that the American president did not, in fact, plan to use the military to hunt down and deport unauthorized immigrants. The White House later insisted that Mr. Trump had meant the word military only as an adjective.On Tuesday, though, the president appeared convinced that American troops were needed.I think its something we have to do, he said.
One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data.Thats what Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive and co-founder, said just over a week ago after revelations that the data research firm Cambridge Analytica had gained access to the profiles of 50 million Facebook users.Over the past year, the downside of social media companies  Facebook foremost among them  has become glaringly apparent. They have been platforms for information campaigns that influenced elections and endangered lives. They have failed to keep users personal information private. And the carefully targeted ads that appear on them can be, well, creepy.Now the drumbeat for regulation of social media on both sides of the aisle  and from many in Silicon Valley  is getting louder by the day. I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary, Tim Cook, Apples chief executive, said recently.Mr. Zuckerberg may be getting tired of other executives sniping at his company, but he needs to come up with a solution  fast. For several weeks, Ive been canvassing various technology executives, privacy advocates, academics and others to come up with some ideas about exactly what Facebook could do to fix itself.It is not clear that Facebook will be able to stave off regulators, but Mr. Zuckerberg and his colleagues might want to consider this: a Why Me? button. (Google, Amazon and others might want to take note, too.)Facebook suffers from a lack of trust because of the asymmetrical nature of the relationship users have with it. We provide it all sorts of information. But we have no idea how the information is being used, how our data is being harvested, how that data is being commingled and cross-referenced with other data sets and ultimately sold to advertisers. (Facebook already has a button, relatively buried in a list of other items, that it calls Why Am I Seeing This Ad? It is, to some degree, a crippled version of what Im suggesting should be introduced on all of Facebooks properties.)To his credit, Mr. Zuckerberg does appear to recognize the problem that his company faces over privacy concerns. After acknowledging that protecting users data is one of the companys biggest responsibilities, he went on to say, If you think about what our services are, at their most basic level, you put some content into a service, whether its a photo or a video or a text message  whether its Facebook or WhatsApp or Instagram  and youre trusting that that content is going to be shared with the people you want to share it with.But the solution Facebook offered last week  putting all of your privacy settings on one screen and blocking some third parties from access to data  is just a Band-Aid. Its a start, but it doesnt provide a road map for how your information is being used.Thats where the Why Me? button could help. This button would sit next to every advertisement and piece of content that appears before you on all of Facebooks properties, including Instagram and WhatsApp.If you saw an ad or an article pop up on your screen, you could click the Why Me? button. Then you would see a full explanation of why that item was pushed to you.The Why Me? explanation would not just include the name of the advertiser, but what keywords, demographics or other information the advertiser specifically targeted. It would also offer a full rundown of how your information fit into the parameters of the advertisers request and where that information came from.Maybe Facebook saw that you had clicked on a pair of sneakers on a different service that shares information with Facebook. The Why Me? section would show you when and where that information was collected. Did Facebook notice you searched for a new cellphone plan? Facebook would tell how it knew that, too.Did Facebook use artificial intelligence to find your face in an image without you or anyone else labeling it? The Why Me? section would show you the images that the artificial intelligence system cross-referenced to identify you. Did Facebook scrape another site or buy information about you that it commingled with the data that you had provided? It would tell you that, too.Most important, at every point in the explanation tree, the user would have the option to turn off or disable that specific piece of data. Facebook, of course, could  and probably should  explain the trade-offs of such decisions.The Why Me? button could also be extended to content. When a friend or company shares a post, Facebook doesnt just display it to everyone listed as the posters friend or follower. Facebooks algorithms choose which friends and followers see it based on all sorts of parameters, usually related to the kind of content or how youve interacted with the friend in the past.The Why Me? button should explain all the data points that are used in the calculation and how they are weighted.The current Why Am I Seeing This Ad? often says something like: Company A wants to reach people ages 18 and older who live or were recently in the United States. This is information based on your Facebook profile and where youve connected to the internet.But it hardly tells you the whole story. Facebook doesnt say so explicitly, but it allows companies to upload their own databases, cross-reference them with Facebooks data and use that information to serve ads to users. It also doesnt say how that other site originally got that information about who you are.In fairness, the Why Me? button might create all sorts of problems for Facebook, and its advertisers, too. It would allow users  and rivals  to reverse engineer much of the way the system works. And advertisers would probably object to the idea of making their targeting plans public. But that would be the cost of using such large public platforms with such exact targeting.It has become something of a clich, but in 1913, before he became a Supreme Court justice, Louis D. Brandeis said, Sunlight is said to be the best of disinfectants.It could well be applied today at Facebook  and its peer companies  if it wants to avoid a governmental crackdown.
SAN FRANCISCO   Scott Pruitt, administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, turned his sights this week on a nearly half-century-old federal waiver that allows California to pursue its own, tough tailpipe emission standards, and allows other states to opt in to California\'s standards rather than federal ones if they choose.The waiver has allowed California, the U.S. state with the most people and the biggest economy, to steer the rest of nation toward tougher limits on car and truck emissions that pollute the air and change the climate.Pruitt said this week the agency will work with all states, including California, to set new pollution and mileage standards for gas- and diesel-powered vehicles.Here\'s a look at California\'s unique waiver from federal emissions standards for cars, why it matters to the rest of the country, and what could happen if the Trump administration moves against California\'s ability to set its own vehicle-emissions standards.___WHAT IS THE WAIVER?A combination of climate, geography and a lot of cars and trucks has given California some of the worst smog in the country, especially in the Los Angeles basin and other inland valleys. To fight that, California has regulated vehicle-tailpipe emissions since before 1970, when the EPA and the federal Clean Air Act came into force. Because of that, Congress wrote an exemption into the landmark Clean Air Act: California could seek waivers to set its own limits for pollutants from cars as long as its rules were at least as tough as federal standards. Since then, Democratic and Republican administrations have renewed California\'s waiver dozens of times. A Trump administration challenge would revive an abortive 2007 effort by the Bush administration to block California\'s power to set its own emissions rules.___WHY DOES THE WAIVER MATTER?While the California waiver is unique, at least 12 other states in the Northeast and elsewhere have chosen to opt into the tougher tailpipe emissions standards that California sets. That means up to 40 percent of cars on the road nationwide follow California\'s emissions standards.Gasoline and diesel exhaust is a main source of pollutants and gases that endanger public health and are changing the climate. California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, wants to reduce the state\'s climate-changing greenhouse-gas emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. Receiving continued federal waivers for progressively tougher state emissions standards will be a critical part of that.Currently the federal and California standards are the same.Some car manufacturers and conservative groups want the EPA to roll back federal controls on greenhouse-gas emissions from vehicles, arguing for a single emission standard set by the federal government. That makes the question of whether California\'s waiver survives still more critical nationally.___WHAT HAPPENS IF THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION MOVES AGAINST THE WAIVER?California officials have vowed to fight to preserve the state\'s waiver."We\'re ready to file suit if needed to protect these critical standards and to fight the Administration\'s war on our environment," California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said Monday in a statement. "California didn\'t become the sixth-largest economy in the world by spectating."The Trump administration would have a tough fight legally if it tries to revoke California\'s waiver outright, especially since it\'s stood for nearly a half-century, said Richard Frank, director of the California Environmental Law and Policy Center at the University of California, Davis.California would have "somewhat less of a powerful argument" legally, however, if the Trump administration refuses to renew the waiver the next time the state comes before the EPA with a plan to tighten state emissions rules, Frank said.President George W. Bush\'s administration made its own move against California\'s unique say on emissions standards in 2007, for the first time denying California its waiver.Before courts could decide the matter conclusively, the Obama administration reversed that waiver denial in 2009.
SHANGHAI/SINGAPORE   When China closed its local cryptocurrency exchanges late last year, an underground ecosystem of bitcoin "mules" and peer-to-peer platforms sprung up to allow bitcoin trading to thrive, away from regulators\' watchful eyes.Li, a Canada-based Chinese banker in his 20s, is one of these underground traders. He buys cryptocurrencies in other markets and sells them at a premium to investors in China, who cannot otherwise get them.At the height of the frenzied demand for bitcoins in January, when prices of the digital currency were hovering close to $20,000 after a 20-fold jump during 2017, Li and other traders were able to sell bitcoins in China for 30 to 40 percent more than they cost elsewhere.But in a matter of months, the premium for bitcoins in China has fallen to around 7 percent or less as a flood of bitcoin mules, who physically carry cash across borders for the trades, has swamped the arbitrage business. Cryptocurrency funds and individual computer-assisted traders have also piled into the market.The boom has eaten away the spreads and shown how fast the galloping cryptocurrency markets can change course."The market\'s kind of taken a downturn; there is less general appetite in this space," said John DeCleene, an assistant fund manager running the fintech and cryptocurrency investments at Overseas Chinese Investment Management."It is too many players entering this market, but also less of the hype we saw in December-January, when people were paying a 30 percent premium because they expected 10 times gains overnight."DeCleene launched a $5 million Singapore-based global fund in November to invest in cryptocurrencies, blockchain-related equities and some exploratory arbitrage trading. He said it has generated a 58 percent return so far.BITCOIN MULESBitcoin arbitrage thrived last year as the cryptocurrency grew more volatile and some governments stepped in with rules to curtail trading.The simplest geographical arbitrage involved buying bitcoin in unregulated markets such as Thailand, or ones that have legalised bitcoin trading such as Japan, and selling them in banned markets such as South Korea, China or India.A second form occurred between exchanges, when nimble-footed traders bought cryptocurrencies cheaply on lesser-known exchanges and sold them for a profit on more liquid and widely used platforms.There were huge price differences to exploit.In early January, when the price of bitcoin was $17,600 on Bitstamp, the Luxembourg-based digital currency exchange, it was being quoted at 25 million won (16,845 pounds) in South Korea, implying a 34 percent "kimchi premium".As China\'s ban expanded from an initial prohibition on issuing new cryptocurrency to a shutdown of exchanges, premiums rose and traders quickly found new ways of doing business.At first, it was limited to closed groups on the popular messaging platform WeChat and meetings at bars, where potential bitcoin buyers could meet sellers.Then peer-to-peer platforms such as CoinCola, websites belonging to former Chinese exchanges Huobi and OKCoin, and even the retail platform Taobao became hubs for "over-the-counter" (OTC) cryptocurrency trading, conducted outside of formal exchanges and far more difficult for regulators to police."The big Chinese traders are all using CoinCola or going direct to each other through other OTC platforms," like WeChat or AliPay, said Christian Grewell, a professor of business and interactive media arts at NYU in Shanghai who has lectured extensively on cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology.AliPay is China\'s leading online payment platform.Another option, bank transfers between buyers and sellers, is "almost untraceable", Grewell added, as it is difficult to prove that a transfer is related to a cryptocurrency transaction.A trader in her 20s in Shanghai said she buys bitcoins in the United States to sell over the counter in China. On each trip to the U.S., she illegally carries $30,000 to $40,000 in cash, she added."Selling and buying bitcoins on those OTC websites is the same as shopping on Taobao," said the trader.BIG COMPETITIONHedge funds that can execute arbitrage trades quickly and at a fraction of the cost are squeezing individual traders, said Ramani Ramachandran, the chief executive of digital exchange Zenprivex.Peter Kim of KIT Trading, part of Vulpes Investment Management, manages a $10 million cryptocurrency arbitrage operation."In the beginning, when there is 30 percent arbitrage, obviously you can travel to Thailand, buy bitcoins, send them to China, Japan, Korea and sell them. That\'s easy," said Kim, who was formerly an options arbitrage trader."But that opportunity is not going to last very long. And even though it is not as blatantly there, there are still many ways to profit from it, especially for someone like me who is used to making 3 basis points on a trade," he added.The arbitrage funds operate much like retail traders, buying and selling cryptocurrencies simultaneously on two different platforms, but on a much larger scale. That allows them to profit from smaller spreads.Some retail traders, including Li, have turned to lesser-known cryptocurrencies such as Tether, which bills itself as being pegged to the U.S. dollar.Tether is popular with Chinese seeking to move their cash discreetly overseas, as it is not volatile. That demand means it trades at a 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent premium in China, although the number was as high as 10 percent in January.Li said his arbitrage activity nets him about $18,000 a month on a trading volume of about half a million dollars.Although that is a tidy sum, it is far less than what frantic traders made late last year."The easy arbitrage is going to be much less prevalent now than it used to be," Kim said.(Reporting and writing by Vidya Ranganathan; Additional reporting by Cynthia Kim in SEOUL; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
LA LINEA DE LA CONCEPCION, Spain   Faces hidden by masks and hoods, a group of 40 men emerge from the darkness of beach-front houses and step into the sand as a state-of-the-art speedboat approaches the shore. They frantically unload dozens of plastic-wrapped burlap bundles, each containing 30 kilograms (66 pounds) of Moroccan hashish.Then, somebody yells: "Cut it! Cut it!"As fast as they came, the smugglers find shelter in the narrow streets of the La Atunara fishing neighborhood. The boat vanishes into the night, still holding half of its cargo. When a patrol car arrives seconds later, all that remains is the sound of the waves.Another night, another chapter in the battle between Spanish authorities and the crime gangs who have turned this neglected town in the shadow of the Rock of Gibraltar into a key European entry point for Moroccan cannabis resin."Right now, we are losing this battle," said Francisco Mena, leader of Nexos, a federation of local community action groups. "Trafficking can\'t be stopped with the human resources and material means that we have in place."He insisted the war could still be won. But such optimism flies in the face of the brazen drug operations witnessed by Associated Press journalists, and of the very words of drug chieftains who agreed to rare interviews."Trafficking has always existed, and it always will. If not here, it will move elsewhere along the coast," said one of the area\'s most notorious "narcos,"who like others spoke on condition that they not be named because they feared prosecution.Half a dozen trafficking ring members and their leaders said that shipping drugs is a way of life in this forgotten corner. In a province with a 30 percent jobless rate, the highest in the country, they see their criminal activity as a "necessary bad" feeding hundreds of families directly and thousands more indirectly."Many of us are fathers. We need to take food home," said another gangster who asked to be identified as Pepe. "If we couldn\'t provide for our children this way, another kind of violence would come."Three dozen clans are believed to be working in Campo de Gibraltar, a county of 268,000 that cradles the Bay of Algeciras. On a clear day, the contours of the coast of Morocco, the world\'s top producer of hashish, are visible across a busy shipping waterway at the mouth of the Mediterranean, just 30 kilometers (less than 19 miles) away.A new generation of bolder gangsters is challenging underfunded law enforcement agencies, as local families watch their teenagers lured into a life of easy money.Criminals that in the past dropped their few hundred kilograms of cargo in the sea as soon as they came across a customs surveillance boat are now ready to defend their bigger, bulkier shipments.On land and at sea, traffickers use shuttle vehicles  SUVs or inflatable boats without cargo whose function is to mislead authorities and, increasingly, ram patrol cars and boats."The earlier generation had a respect for police uniform but there is now a new generation that has an absolute contempt for authority," says Juan Franco, the mayor of La Linea, "My worry is that these guys are armed and so far, they are not using them against civil guard or police agents, but that\'s the next step."Fears that civilians could also be caught in the crossfire reached a height last month when a group of drug traffickers stormed the emergency ward in La Linea\'s public hospital. The assailants freed a top aide and nephew to Los Castanitas, two brothers who run the town\'s most influential drug clans.A week after the attack, the country\'s Interior Minister descended on the town with an entourage of bodyguards and special police forces. Juan Ignacio Zoido promised crime squads and additional security measures for the county over coming months.The smugglers take umbrage at their reputation as a violent, fractured community."Police are looking for a war by pitting us against each other, but this is not Medellin or Sinaloa," said a prominent drug lord.Despite its struggles with trafficking, Spain is the European Union member seizing the largest volumes of both cocaine and cannabis. Of the 373 tons of drugs seized in Spain last year, according to the Interior Ministry, 145 tons were cannabis resin confiscated in the Campo de Gibraltar region, a 45 percent increase from 2016.Still, much more slips through the cracks. Investigators said seizures amount to only 4 to 5 percent of the hashish that could be entering the country.Activists, local politicians and police unions want more resources to investigate money laundering that could lead to gang leaders; a regional court specialized in drug trafficking and harsher sentences. Some even ask for regulating the consumption and sale of cannabis.Mena welcomes recent steps toward a bill aiming to restrict the use of large speedboats. He says the European Union should also aid Spain, and pressure Morocco for stronger action on its end.But the biggest challenge is local collusion with the drug networks. Revenues feed the local economy, often laundered through beauty parlors, gyms, clothing stores or other small businesses.In late March, agents in a poor neighborhood fired gunshots into the air to dispel a crowd protecting a trafficker who was on the run from police. Their quarry vanished, leaving behind a car with half a ton of hashish.Still, there are signs that some residents know that drugs are a dead end for their town. On Feb. 27, two weeks after the hospital incident, more than 2,000 people gathered to protest."No more drugs, we want jobs," they shouted.But Franco, the mayor, does not believe that his city has truly turned a corner."Once in a while there is a specific event that creates a catharsis of some kind," he said, "but months on we go back to the same point."___AP photographer Emilio Morenatti contributed to this story.
LONDON   Britain\'s defense laboratory acknowledged Tuesday it hasn\'t tracked down the source of the nerve agent that poisoned a Russian ex-spy, a statement the Kremlin said proved that British accusations of Moscow\'s involvement were baseless.Scientists at the U.K\'s Porton Down lab previously identified the poison as a Soviet-developed type of nerve agent known as Novichok. The British government has said the only plausible explanation was that it came from Russia and blamed Russia for the attack on the former double agent and his adult daughter.Porton Down chief executive Gary Aitkenhead said Tuesday that scientists at the lab "have not verified the precise source, but we provided the scientific information to the government who have then used a number of other sources to piece together the conclusions that they have come to."Aitkenhead told Sky News the attack with a highly toxic chemical weapon was "probably only within the capabilities of a state actor."At the same time, the lab\'s job is "to provide the scientific evidence that identifies what the particular nerve agent is ... but it\'s not our job to say where that was actually manufactured," he said.Russian President Vladimir Putin quickly pointed at Aitkenhead\'s statement as evidence that British accusations of Russian involvement were unfounded. Moscow has fiercely denied being behind the March 4 attack."The speed at which the anti-Russian campaign was launched causes bewilderment," Putin said from Turkey, where he met with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.Putin added that Russia will push for a thorough probe and expects the international chemical weapons watchdog to consider Russia\'s input."We want a thorough investigation. We would like to take part in it and expect to receive all the relevant materials," Putin said. He insisted the nerve agent that Britain said was used to attack former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, could have been produced by some 20 nations.Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Moscow expects an apology.The poisonings of the Skripal in Salisbury, England has sparked a crisis in relations between Russia and the West, producing a wave of diplomatic expulsions unseen even at the height of the Cold War.Britain, along with the United States and at least two dozen other U.K. allies wanting to show solidarity, have expelled over 150 Russian diplomats. Russia has ordered the same number of their envoys out.The British government insisted that several pieces of information contributed to its conclusion that the Russian government was responsible for the nerve agent attack, including intelligence that Russia had produced Novichok within the last decade and had investigated ways of delivering nerve agents for assassinations.Moscow has rejected those claims, saying that it never produced the agent dubbed Novichok in the West and completed the destruction of its Soviet-era chemical weapons stockpiles last year under international oversight.Russian officials also have suggested the poison could have come from Britain, pointing out that Porton Down conducts secret chemical and biological weapons research.Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko called the poisonings a "provocation arranged by Britain" to justify high military spending because "they need a major enemy."Aitkenhead said there was "no way" the nerve agent could have come from the high-security facility."We deal with a number of very toxic substances as part of the work that we do. We\'ve got the highest levels of security and controls," he said.Skripal, 66, a former Russian intelligence agent convicted of spying for Britain, remains in critical condition. British officials say his 33-year-old daughter\'s health is improving.At Russia\'s request, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons plans to hold an emergency meeting on the case Wednesday at its headquarters in The Hague.Yury Filatov, Russia\'s ambassador to Ireland, said Russia wants Britain to "provide every possible element of evidence they might have in their hands" about the attack.If Britain does not show evidence to back up its allegations that Moscow initiated the attack, "there are ample grounds to assume that we are dealing with a grand scale provocation organized in London aimed to discredit Russia."Britain\'s Foreign Office said the Moscow-requested OPCW meeting was a "diversionary tactic, intended to undermine the work of the OPCW in reaching a conclusion" about the nerve agent attack.___Isachenkov reported from Moscow. Raf Casert in Brussels and Nataliya Vasilyeva in Moscow contributed to this story.
MIAMI   A U.S. jury on Tuesday found a former president of Bolivia and his defense minister responsible for killings by security forces during 2003 unrest in the South American nation, awarding $10 million in damages in a lawsuit filed by Bolivians whose relatives were among the slain.The jury verdict came Tuesday after a nearly three-week trial of the civil suit in federal court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The jury found against former Bolivian President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, and his former defense minister, Jose Carlos Sanchez Berzain. Both have been living in the U.S. after fleeing Bolivia in 2003.Lawyers for the two former officials vowed to seek to have the verdict overturned.In the lawsuit originally filed in 2007, relatives of eight Bolivians who died claimed the two officials planned to kill thousands of civilians to crush political opposition during a time of civil unrest known as the "Gas War." The lawsuit was filed under the Torture Victim Protection Act, which authorizes suits in the U.S. for extrajudicial killings.The unrest erupted in the fall of 2003 as street protests in Bolivia over use of the country\'s vast natural gas reserves boiled over. Demonstrators threw up street blockades of flaming debris and rubble in several places including on the outskirts of the capital of La Paz, and violent clashes between police and security forces with the civilian protesters turned deadly at times.At times, government forces intent on clearing street barricades fired on demonstrators, mainly in the El Alto municipality adjacent to La Paz, leading to deaths. Other fatalities were reported in confrontations between security forces and Bolivian miners marching to the capital in support of the protesters. Many of the civilian victims were indigenous Aymara Bolivians.The unrest marked the decline of traditional political parties in that nation and the rise of new leaders including Evo Morales, a populist leader of coca growers who later became Bolivia\'s first indigenous president. Now in his third term, Morales tweeted praise late Tuesday for the "perseverance" of those who pressed suit, saying they\'ve obtained a court decision that "draws us ever closer to justice" in the case.Plaintiffs also lauded the decision."After many years of fighting for justice for our family members and the people of Bolivia, we celebrate this historic victory," said plaintiff Tefilo Baltazar Cerro, whose pregnant wife was killed by a bullet fired through the wall of a house. He added in an emailed statement: "Fifteen years after they fled justice, we have finally held Sanchez de Lozada and Sanchez Berzain to account for the massacre they unleashed against our people."The jury found the former officials responsible because they had ordered the military to use deadly force in the confrontations."The plaintiffs demonstrated immense courage in relentlessly pursuing justice for over a decade," said Judith Chomsky, a Center for Constitutional Rights attorney for the plaintiffs. "They have set an example for anyone fighting for accountability for human rights abuses worldwide."Attorneys for the two ex-officials said they have asked the judge for a ruling that would essentially overturn the jury verdict for legal reasons, which will continue the case for the time being. An appeal is also possible."We disagree with the jury\'s verdict and believe that the proof was so lacking that the case never should have gotten to a jury," said attorney Steve Raber in an email statement. "We trust the process and believe that the verdict will be overturned when the law is correctly applied."The defense had contended that the civilian deaths were more a product of crossfire than intentional killings and that the government was simply responding to a crisis. Authorities say at least 64 people died and more than 400 others were injured in the violence that year.Sanchez de Lozada was president of Bolivia twice, serving the first term from August 1993 until August 1997 and again from August 2002 until October 2003. Sanchez Berzain was defense minister in the second term.________This story has been corrected to show that at least 64 people were killed in the 2003 unrest in Bolivia.

WASHINGTON   His moniker was "DARKKING22," and authorities say he offered a cornucopia of illicit drugs through the click of a mouse.But it was his ads on a hidden website for pure fentanyl, the powerful painkiller driving a record number of overdose deaths across the U.S., that caught FBI agents\' attention. They bought some, and days later it arrived in a small, clear, plastic bag complete with a thank-you card, a sign of how easy it is to buy drugs on the so-called darknet.The dealer did not stay anonymous for long. Federal authorities say "DARKKING22" was 28-year-old Antoin Austin, of Euclid, Ohio. His arrest last week is among the first by a new team of federal agents, computer experts and analysts tasked with fighting the kind of online opioid trafficking that law enforcement officials say can be more persistent and vexing than more traditional trafficking by cartels.Frustrating authorities in their pursuit of online dealers is the anonymity in which they work. Buyers access stores through secret web browsers and make purchases using encrypted channels, code names and virtual currency such as Bitcoin.Attorney General Jeff Sessions said darknet vendors are "pouring fuel on the fire of the national drug epidemic" and this year doubled the number of federal agents working on those cases. It\'s part of the Trump administration\'s tough approach to the drug crisis that has focused on harsh punishments for dealers. Critics say the overall strategy resembles a return to failed drug-war tactics and that the record $4.6 billion included in the spending plan the president signed last month is not nearly enough to establish the kind of treatment system needed to reverse the crisis.But there\'s bipartisan agreement that more resources and new restrictions are needed to stem the stream of opioids entering the U.S. from overseas, especially China, and into households through the U.S. mail.Darknet marketplaces are thriving, even after authorities in recent years dismantled two of the most notorious, the Silk Road and AlphaBay, where hundreds of thousands of customers bought not just illegal drugs but weapons, malware and counterfeit and stolen identification. Authorities on the new task force, the Joint Criminal Opioid Darknet Enforcement team, in this case targeted the vendors who sell illicit fentanyl by mail."It\'s not enough simply to take the sites down," Acting Deputy Assistant Attorney General Richard Downing said. "Vendors look for another opportunity, another site, another place where they can go and sell their drugs and guns."In its first operation, the team arrested Austin and seven others and seized weapons, computer equipment and more than 2,000 lethal doses of the deadly drug. Investigators uncovered 19 overdose deaths they believe are connected to fentanyl purchased online.Austin\'s public defender declined to comment.Before the team\'s formation, federal agents would dive into complicated investigations largely on their own, sometimes without realizing others were already on the case. But the team has forged a new level of cooperation that its members say is critical in increasingly sophisticated darknet cases that combine tech savvy with old-fashioned drug dealing.Agents in Pittsburgh, for example, have found drug gangs that traditionally peddled narcotics smuggled from beyond the southern border are now also selling drugs from China online, said Shawn A. Brokos, a supervisory special agent there. Buyers sometimes turn to the dark web for drugs to then deal on the street."A lot of them start on a smaller level and then they see how lucrative this can be and they keep expanding," she said.Investigators from several agencies made a list of "targets," not just the fentanyl peddling vendors, but buyers and users, then set out to contact them, building on existing intelligence. They spoke to more than 160 people, getting a clearer picture of the landscape, said Kyle Rau, of the U.S. Postal Inspection Service."They share their secrets, they share their tradecraft," said Emily Odom, chief of the FBI\'s Hi-Tech Organized Crime Unit. "They\'re working together, so we have to do a better job working together as well."

Stories are shape shifters, as mutable and capricious as genies, in Pay No Attention to the Girl, Target Margin Theaters timely gloss on the rich and strange ancient tales known as The One Thousand and One Nights. We are never allowed to forget that the multicolored narratives in this tantalizing production have constantly been redyed by the who, where and when of their telling during many centuries.That includes this particular telling, rendered by a multifarious cast of five, under the direction of David Herskovits. Consider, for example, the name of this show, which inaugurates the 27-year-old Target Margin troupes new base (and first permanent home), the capacious Doxsee Theater, in the Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn.Pay No Attention to the Girl? But isnt The One Thousand and One Nights related by a female uber-narrator who commands the total attention of her listener? In it, the cunning Scheherazade staves off her execution by her husband the king, who has a nasty habit of bedding and then slaughtering his brides, by spinning more than a thousand (whew!) artfully cliff-hanging tales.But Pay No Attention  a collaborative product of two years of deep-diving research, readings and workshops  is being performed in 2018, when the silencing of women with stories to tell is an urgent and incendiary topic. (Do I really need to drop the name Harvey Weinstein here?)The tale from which this show takes its title involves a he-says, she-says situation, in which the word of a young prince is challenged by his royal fathers favorite concubine. He says that she came on to him, but he turned her down; she says it was just the opposite.From this conflict arises a fantastical array of other stories, pitched to the vacillating king. They are meant to prove the malice, craft and perfidy of a) women or b) men, depending upon your point of view. Thus we tumble down a labyrinthine rabbit hole of accounts of men, women and otherworldly beings like djinns and ifrits, as they enthrall and entrap, deceive and conquer one another.As is always the case with Target Margin  which has devoted earlier seasons to disassembling and reconstructing Chekhov, Eugene ONeill, Gertrude Stein and Yiddish theater  telling tales is a communal enterprise. Here the narrative village includes not only the core ensemble, but also the very visible technical crew and, implicitly, the listening audience.That means no curtained proscenium stage, or performers sticking to single roles. The show begins with players and theatergoers alike assembled in the same open space. An actress (Caitlin Nasema Cassidy), who says she is Mr. Herskovits, provides some prefatory words before seeming to forget her lines. The other performers fill the silence, finishing and amending one anothers thoughts.They then move into brightly furnished bleachers, but only briefly. We the audience are commanded to change places with them. The cast  which also includes Deepali Gupta, Samy El-Noury, Anthony Vaughn Merchant and Lori Vega  is set loose to morph into a multitude of persons and creatures.They rove the wide, wild darkness of the warehouse space, coming in and out of focus. Carolyn Mrazs set of many movable parts is lighted with homey magic by Kate McGee (love the descending grape-cluster bulbs). The soundscape (by Mr. Herskovits, implemented by the companys resident sound demon Jesse Freedman) ranges from the oceans roar to the unsettling vintage pop ballad He Hit Me (and It Felt Like a Kiss).All the while, the cast members, dressed in motley attic-trunk costumes by Dina El-Aziz, keep changing parts  and perspectives  to speak (in Arabic as well as English), sing and mime accounts of men and women making love and war, which are often the same thing.It is surprisingly easy to follow the plots and characters within these stories framed by stories framed by stories. The ambiguity that pervades this production is deliberate and of a different order.Would you like to start with it was, or it wasnt? the cast members ask one another near the shows beginning. And they are prone to occasional fumbling and mumbling, as if suddenly overwhelmed by the vast possibilities of interpretation.We are also reminded that the seeming misogyny that runs through much of whats described here is hardly to the taste of these contemporary narrators. A scene in which a prince vanquishes a warrior princess by rape is given the grudging postscript, And everybody lived  pause, swallow  O.K. ever after.But if this show is inevitably and openly defined by a 21st-century gaze, it also revels in the timeless and transcendent power of its source material. Watching Pay No Attention, we are much like Scheherazades enraptured sultan, still listening to what she has to say, and still trying to make sense of it.
MELBOURNE, Australia  South Africas foreign minister said Monday that the Australian government had retracted comments by its home affairs minister suggesting that South Africa was not a civilized country because of its treatment of white farmers.In March, the minister, Peter Dutton, said that persecuted South African farmers deserved the protection of a civilized country  alluding to Australia  and said he would explore the possibility of fast-tracking refugee visas for them. The South African government has been considering a constitutional amendment to expropriate farmland without compensation to its owners to address racial disparities in the country.Mr. Duttons comments, as well as his suggestion that the farmers faced a horrific circumstance, drew fury in Pretoria, where government officials quickly demanded a retraction.South Africas minister of international relations and cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, said that Australias prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, and foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, had retracted Mr. Duttons comments and assured South African officials that they were not in line with Australian immigration policy.Mr. Turnbulls office did not immediately respond to a request seeking confirmation of Ms. Sisulus account, which did not indicate when or how the retraction took place.The apparent action by the prime minister and Ms. Bishop suggested internal divisions in the government over Australias immigration policy, which has come under harsh international scrutiny following reports of refugee mistreatment in the countrys offshore detention program.Last year, the Australian government paid $53 million in damages to migrants who said they suffered abuse in the camps. Mr. Dutton, who controls immigration policy, has been a staunch defender of offshore detention and has argued that Australia should not accept refugees who would be a burden on the countrys social safety net.With his comments on South African farmers, Mr. Dutton was wading into a volatile, racially tinged debate. South Africas long-governing party, the African National Congress, proposed the land expropriation amendment because most South African farmland remains under white ownership more than 25 years after the end of apartheid.In an initial response to Mr. Duttons comments, Ms. Sisulu said that nongovernmental organizations had been distributing inaccurate statistics about the killings of white farmers and sowing panic.On Tuesday, Mr. Duttons office released a statement countering Ms. Sisulus assertions that the Turnbull government had retracted his comments.The statement does not accurately reflect the prime minister or minister for foreign affairs position on this matter, the statement said. There was no rebuttal of the words of Minister Dutton.Mr. Duttons comments on the farmers drew sharp condemnation from refugee advocates who, citing his perceived indifference to nonwhite asylum seekers who are being held on Manus Island and Nauru, saw him favoring certain refugees because of their race.Refugee advocates found Duttons comments so alarming because we have a fundamental belief in a nondiscriminatory immigration policy, said Jana Favero, who works with the Asylum Seeker Resource Center, which is based in Australia.The comments that Dutton made about how they would integrate and that theyre the sort of people we want coming to Australia insinuates that there are the wrong kind of people coming to Australia, she added.While Mr. Duttons remarks drew widespread criticism, they also struck a chord among some white nationalists for whom the plight of South African farmers had become a rallying point.In late January, Lauren Southern, a far-right Canadian commentator, published a trailer for her upcoming documentary Farmlands on the killings of South African farmers that featured dire warnings of an impending race war. The trailer carried the tagline CRISIS. OPPRESSION. GENOCIDE?The issue has also been covered at length on AltRight.com, a website run by Richard B. Spencer, the American white nationalist.In a television interview last month, Ms. Bishop, the Australian foreign minister, appeared to dampen talk of special visas for South Africans.I believe the humanitarian programs credibility comes from the fact that it is nondiscriminatory and that each application is assessed on its merits, she said. Thats been the case under the Turnbull government and as far as Im aware, there are no plans to change that visa program.In the wake of Ms. Sisulus remarks about the retraction, the Australian Foreign Ministry released a statement saying the countrys visa system did not favor certain races.The prime minister and the ministers for foreign affairs and home affairs have been clear and consistent in reiterating that Australias current humanitarian visa program is nondiscriminatory, with each application assessed on its merits, the statement said. The program can accommodate those fearing persecution.
WASHINGTON   President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he expects to decide "very quickly" whether to remove U.S. troops from war-torn Syria, saying their primary mission was to defeat the Islamic State group and "we\'ve almost completed that task."A decision by Trump to withdraw from Syria would conflict with the views of his top advisers.In fact, as Trump addressed reporters at the White House, high-ranking U.S. officials spoke elsewhere in Washington about the need to stay in Iraq and Syria to finish off the militant group, which once controlled large swaths of territory in both countries, and keep it from rising up again.At a news conference with the presidents of the Baltic nations, Trump was asked whether he still favored pulling U.S. troops out of Syria."As far as Syria is concerned, our primary mission in terms of that was getting rid of ISIS," Trump answered, using an acronym for the Islamic State group. "We\'ve completed that task and we\'ll be making a decision very quickly, in coordination with others in the area, as to what we will do."The mission is "very costly for our country and it helps other countries a helluva lot more than it helps us," Trump said."I want to get out. I want to bring our troops back home. I want to start rebuilding our nation," he said during the appearance with his counterparts from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Trump also noted that the Baltic states are partners with the U.S. in the anti-IS coalition and "we will not rest until ISIS is gone."Later Tuesday, Trump met with his national security team to discuss Syria.According to officials familiar with the preparations for the meeting, Trump\'s entire national security team, including CIA chief Mike Pompeo, who has been nominated to be the next secretary of state, strongly advised against a hasty withdrawal from Syria. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal talks.Also on the meeting agenda was the fate of some $200 million in U.S. stabilization assistance for Syria that the White House put on hold after Trump said during a speech in Ohio last week that he wanted to leave Syria "very soon." The State Department was to have spent the money on building up the country\'s infrastructure, including power, water and roads.Trump in recent weeks has asked Saudi Arabia to contribute $4 billion for reconstruction in Syria, according to a U.S. official, as part of the president\'s effort to get other countries to pay for stabilizing the country so the U.S. isn\'t on the hook. The United States is awaiting a response from the Saudis, said the official, who wasn\'t authorized to discuss the conversations publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.A senior Syrian Kurdish official said Trump\'s comments on wanting to withdraw from Syria came at an "inappropriate time" as Islamic State militants re-emerge in eastern Syria and amid threats from Turkey.Ilham Ahmed, a senior Kurdish official in Syria\'s Raqqa province, said such a decision would clear the way for "total chaos in Syria," endangering areas newly liberated from the IS group and empowering Turkey to move in on towns controlled by the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, backed by the U.S.-led coalition.The main IS holdout in Syria is in the eastern province of Deir el-Zour, where momentum by the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces has stalled in recent weeks as many Kurdish members of the group have shifted west to the Afrin area to fight Turkish forces. Pentagon officials have publicly raised the prospect of this giving the IS group the breathing room it needs to regroup.Many have warned that a premature U.S. withdrawal from Syria would cede the country to Iran and Russia, which have supported Syrian President Bashar Assad. Iran\'s continued presence in Syria is especially troubling to neighboring Israel, a U.S. ally that regards Iran as an existential threat.Some high-ranking Trump administration officials urged caution.Gen. Joseph Votel told a conference at the United States Institute of Peace that the United States would have to continue its work against remnants of the Islamic State group in eastern Syria. Votel is commander of U.S. Central Command, which oversees U.S. military operations across the Middle East, including Syria.Votel said the military campaign has been largely successful but is not over."The hard part, I think, is in front of us, and that is stabilizing these areas, consolidating our gains, getting people back into their homes, addressing the long-term issues" like reconstruction of towns and cities badly damaged by the fighting and by the Islamic State group\'s scorched-earth tactics. "There is a military role in this, certainly in the stabilization phase."At the same Institute of Peace event, State Department envoy Brett McGurk said, "We want to keep eyes on the prize, on ISIS, because ISIS is not finished."A third U.S. official, Mark Green, administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, also argued at the conference that U.S. stabilization efforts in Syria are critical to a lasting defeat of the Islamic State group.___Associated Press writers Matthew Lee, Josh Lederman and Robert Burns in Washington and Sarah El Deeb in Qamishli, Syria, contributed to this report.______This story has been corrected to show the name of the Syrian town is Deir el-Zour, not Der el-Zour.

BEIRUT/AMMAN   Syrian rebels in a besieged area northeast of Damascus have been told they must accept state rule or leave, a rebel group said on Tuesday, as the government and its Russian ally seek to wipe out the last pockets of opposition territory near the capital.The ultimatum to the rebels of eastern Qalamoun was served to civilians from the area during a meeting with a Russian colonel and an officer from the Syrian Air Force Intelligence, rebel spokesman Said Saif of the Martyr Ahmad Abdo told Reuters.The area is 40 km (25 miles) from Damascus and separate from eastern Ghouta - an area right next to the capital where government forces have routed rebels in recent weeks, forcing thousands to accept safe passage out towards the Turkish border.An opposition source said talks over the densely-populated town of Douma, the last rebel pocket of eastern Ghouta, had yet to be concluded, at odds with state media reports that the group holed up inside - Jaish al-Islam - had accepted a deal to leave.President Bashar al-Assad, his military position secure thanks to Russia and Iran, is seeking to crush the last pockets of opposition to his rule near the main cities of western Syria.The rebel enclave in eastern Qalamoun includes several towns and a barren expanse of mountainous territory."A clear message was sent to the Free Syrian Army (FSA) groups in the area: either reconciliation and disarmament - handing weapons to the Syrian government as the Russians describe it - or departing eastern Qalamoun," Saif said in separate comments to al-Hadath TV.Saif said rebels had made a proposal under which they would withdraw from the towns into the mountains and civilians would stay, and Russia\'s response was being awaited. He said the aim was to avoid the "forced displacement" of people that had occurred in other areas recovered by the Syrian government.The Syrian military could not immediately be reached for comment.Saif told Reuters the civilians who met the Russian and Syrian military officers had expressed concern that a departure of rebel fighters would leave them vulnerable to attack by jihadists from Nusra Front or Islamic State.DOUMA DEADLOCK?The Syrian war last month entered its eighth year having killed hundreds of thousands of people and forced 11 million from their homes, including nearly 6 million who have fled abroad in one of the worst refugee crises of modern times.While Assad now controls the single largest chunk of Syria, it may prove difficult for him to regain much more territory without colliding with the interests of foreign states, notably Turkey and the United States which have forces in the country.Russian-backed government forces have recovered nearly all of eastern Ghouta in a ferocious assault that began in February. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says bombardment of the rebel enclave killed more than 1,600 civilians in Ghouta.It marks Assad\'s most significant victory over the rebellion against his rule since rebels were driven from eastern Aleppo in 2016.State media has said Jaish al-Islam had accepted a deal giving its fighters safe passage to towns at the border with Turkey that are located in a buffer zone controlled by the Turkish military and allied Syrian rebel groups.But while Russia\'s defence ministry said 2,000 had left since April 1, the opposition source familiar with the negotiations said no final deal had been reached with Jaish al-Islam.The group, which is estimated to have many thousands of fighters, has previously insisted it will not leave Douma or accept "forced displacement" to another part of Syria.The source said that while Jaish al-Islam wanted to stay in the town, it was not seeking its own "independent canton". People in Douma wanted a reconciliation deal with the state that keeps out its feared security services, the source added.A military source told Reuters on Monday that some elements of Jaish al-Islam were still rejecting a deal and that military force would be used if they refused to strike one.The source said on Tuesday the government had set a deadline for militants to leave Douma, without saying how long."The Syrian government has taken a decision to clear militants from the areas," the source told Reuters.(Additional reporting by Firas Makdesi in Damascus; Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by John Stonestreet and Mark Potter)

WASHINGTON  A power struggle between two of President Trumps top cabinet members threatens to delay implementation of the new tax law and could give lobbyists and political hands in the White House greater ability to shape critical decisions about which types of businesses benefit from the law.The White Houses Office of Management and Budget, headed by Mick Mulvaney, and the Treasury Department, run by Steven Mnuchin, are at odds over whether to end Treasurys traditional independence in writing tax regulations and to give the budget office more oversight of those rules. If an agreement is not reached soon, the president may have to weigh in and make the decision himself.The debate is more than just a West Wing turf war. How it plays out could affect several big decisions that will define the breadth and scope of the new tax law, including whether small businesses like veterinary clinics and dentists may claim a new 20 percent tax deduction, and to what degree multinational corporations such as Microsoft and Eli Lilly will be hit with a new minimum tax on the profits they earn overseas.Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Mulvaney, who are among Mr. Trumps top economic lieutenants, have largely been in sync on the shape and direction of the tax law. Both supported lowering corporate taxes and using the tax code to discourage companies from shifting operations overseas.Where they differ, however, is over who has the ultimate authority to interpret the many lingering questions that will need to be answered in the coming months and years, including which types of companies qualify as pass-through businesses eligible for the 20 percent deduction and how broadly the international tax provisions aimed at preventing profit shifting should apply.The Treasury Department, which issues tax regulations through the Internal Revenue Service and offers guidance that dictates how the tax code is applied, will have broad discretion in determining the effects of the law. It has long been exempt from the type of cost-benefit analysis that the Office of Management and Budget performs on most rules that government agencies issue.With a host of unintended or unclear provisions stemming from the rapid passage of the law, the Treasury will need to decide how the legislation is implemented. It has already begun issuing guidance to clarify the laws intent and in March moved to block hedge funds and private equity firms from trying to circumvent a new rule aimed at limiting the use of the so-called carried interest tax break.Some congressional Republicans are rooting for Mr. Mulvaneys office to wield greater oversight of the tax law, in the hopes that it would push for the most lenient interpretations of regulations that enable the largest number of businesses to pay lower rates under the law. Other lawmakers and business groups are pulling for Mr. Mnuchin, believing that adding review by the Office of Management and Budget could slow down the creation of regulations that businesses say they need to make investment and tax planning decisions this year.Mr. Mulvaney has taken the view that tax regulations issued by the Treasury are of significant economic importance and that decisions that determine the fate of hundreds of millions of dollars are being made without sufficient scrutiny by his office. The budget office analyzes regulations issued by agencies across the federal government, with its Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs determining whether agencies have sufficiently addressed problems during rule-making and either accepting regulations or sending them back to be reworked.The Treasury Department does consult the budget office on some of its rule-making, but since a 1983 memorandum of understanding, the office has not had the authority to review the Treasurys tax guidance, on the theory that it is not economically significant enough to warrant it.An executive order from Mr. Trump last year called for that arrangement to be re-examined. With the Treasury Department now playing a greater role in policymaking  for instance, overseeing enforcement of parts of the Affordable Care Act and trying to limit corporations from engaging in mergers to avoid taxes  Mr. Mulvaney and other White House officials think that the I.R.S. should be subject to greater accountability when making decisions that often go beyond technical clarifications.Greater accountability, however, could come with costs.If Mr. Mulvaney wins the argument, it will slow the process down, said John A. Koskinen, a former I.R.S. commissioner whose term ended last year. If you had all the regulations coming out of Treasury and I.R.S. subject to more review and delays, it would not be making taxpayers, accountants and lawyers happy. They are pushing to get that information as quickly as they can.Since the passage of the tax bill late last year, negotiations between Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Mulvaney have grown increasingly vigorous, with both sides laying claim to being the laws final arbiter.A change would be seen as a win for Mr. Mulvaney, who has made deregulation a priority in the White House. It would also be a blow to Mr. Mnuchin, who has been the tax bills most public defender on behalf of Mr. Trump, diminishing his departments authority under his watch.The potential change in regulatory oversight could have major implications, both logistical and political.Adding a cost-benefit analysis by the budget office into the process would potentially add another layer of red tape  which Mr. Trump famously hates in other areas of regulation  to a process that is already proceeding too slowly for many business groups liking. Treasury officials are concerned that the budget office lacks the resources and tax expertise to properly assess tax guidance and that the process will get bogged down, potentially delaying rules to clarify the law for months. One early hurdle would be hiring; the budget office does not currently employ its own team of tax lawyers.Theres a moderate level of concern that it could potentially slow down the guidance process, said Ken Spain, a partner at CGCN Group, a lobbying firm with a number of tax-related clients. Any time you blur the lines on what is already a tricky process to navigate, its going to give the business community some degree of heartburn.Officials from previous administrations also say that opening the tax regulation effort beyond Treasury would invite not just comments from the budget office, but from the White House political team and other advisory groups in the government.Midlevel political appointees get their fingers in there, find out when the meetings are and have their opinions, said Adam Looney, a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution who served in President Barack Obamas Treasury Department.Such an expansion, Mr. Looney said, also offers more avenues for lobbyists to press their case for why their clients should receive more preferable tax treatment. The swamp is going to be enriched by this one, he said.Budget office officials say the desire for final oversight over the tax bill is in line with the administrations deregulatory push and that a more uniform approach to rule-making would benefit the federal government. They point to a 2016 Government Accountability Office report concluding that the agreement that has made Treasury an exception is outdated and that the department has been inconsistent in documenting its guidance process.Republican leaders in Congress have walked a delicate line as the dispute plays out. Julia Slingsby, a spokeswoman for Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said last week that Mr. Brady appreciates the different, complementary roles that O.M.B. and Treasury play with respect to tax code regulations.The Ways and Means Committee has partnered with Treasury on developing the pro-growth tax reform legislation and we look forward to it continuing the partnership as Treasury and O.M.B. do their work on the regulations, she said.Administration officials have suggested that a compromise could be reached within weeks.We have been working productively with O.M.B. and are very pleased with the process, said Tony Sayegh, assistant secretary for public affairs at the Treasury. We look forward to a resolution in the near future.Meghan Burris, a budget office spokeswoman said, We do not discuss ongoing, pre-decisional processes and negotiations.
LONDON  After days of damaging headlines, a crisis over anti-Semitism within Britains opposition Labour Party seemed to be fading, following reassuring statements and a contrite  if belated  apology from its leader, Jeremy Corbyn.But for his critics, actions speak louder than words, and on Monday there was a new chorus of criticism when it emerged that Mr. Corbyn had attended a Passover event organized by Jewdas, a left-wing Jewish group that is highly critical of mainstream Jewish organizations and of Israel.Jewdas describes itself as a forum for radical voices for the alternative diaspora. It has called Israel a steaming pile of sewage, while criticizing those who organized recent protests against anti-Semitism in the Labour Party.After a furor over Mr. Corbyns defense, in 2012, of a mural by the Los Angeles-based street artist Mear One that was widely viewed as anti-Semitic, the most recent events have brought renewed criticism from several Labour lawmakers, one of whom described the leaders actions as irresponsible and dangerous.Mr. Corbyn spent more than four hours at the event, according to Charlotte Nichols, womens officer of the partys youth wing, who defended his presence in an article for LabourList, a pro-Labour website.Mr. Corbyn was an active participant from start to finish, leading the prayer for Elijahs cup, singing along with us as best he could, and even bringing along beetroot from his own allotment for our (vegan) Seder plate, she wrote.The Jewish community is not one monolithic bloc; part of its beauty is in its plurality and diversity, Ms. Nichols added, arguing that it was absolutely right, for the Labour leader to engage with the community at all levels.Jon Lansman, founder of the pro-Corbyn group Momentum, acknowledged that past comments by Jewdas about Israel were certainly not helpful to Jeremy or the cause of opposing anti-Semitism in the Labour Party, but told the BBC that Mr. Corbyn, a lifelong anti-racist, was eager to meet the leaders of mainstream Jewish organizations.A pro-Corbyn Jewish group also came to his defense, and some of his allies have said that attacks on Mr. Corbyn are being masterminded or exploited by politically motivated critics in the party who oppose his left-wing agenda. Nevertheless, his latest intervention, first reported by the political blog Guido Fawkes, suggests that the Labour Party leader is, at best, politically tone deaf.He appears to be someone who is unwilling to do the most modest things to shut down the story and who, in fact, does the opposite, said Steven Fielding, a professor of political history at Nottingham University in England.Mr. Corbyn, he added, is either incredibly obtuse or he just doesnt care, and he has created a crisis he could have averted simply by taking the advice of people he doesnt like.In an appearance on Tuesday in Swindon, in southern England, Mr. Corbyn defended his decision to attend the Seder. It was very interesting talking to a lot of young people about their experiences of modern Britain, and I learned a lot, he said. Isnt that a good thing?In a statement via Facebook, Jewdas described Mr. Corbyn as a 10/10 guest, who had provided delicious maror  bitter herb for the Seder.We are unhappy with the pervasive anti-Semitism that still remains on the left but continue to remain very much involved because we are committed to a better world and a better left, the statement said.Since his election as Labour leader, Mr. Corbyn has been at war with a sizable section of his party, some of whom say he lacks credibility as a potential prime minister. However, he has brought thousands of new supporters to the party, confounded critics by running a much more successful election campaign last year than expected and has since tightened his control of the Labour apparatus.Yet, even if Mr. Corbyn is in a position of internal strength, the anti-Semitism dispute, along with his reluctance to blame Russia for the poisoning of a former spy in Salisbury, England, has rekindled debate about his leadership.Schooled in left-wing, protest politics, Mr. Corbyns worldview seems to have remained much as it was when he entered Parliament in 1983, at the beginning of a long period on the fringes of the Labour Party.His has an implacable, binary, worldview, Professor Fielding said. He sees Israel as Zionist, and Zionism as part of imperialism, and imperialism as the part of the enemy.The latest questions over anti-Semitism began more than a week ago when a Labour lawmaker, Luciana Berger, asked questions about Mr. Corbyns endorsement, in 2012, of a campaign to save a mural in east London that caricatured Jewish bankers playing Monopoly on the backs of the poor. Mr. Corbyns office took hours to produce an equivocal response, before eventually issuing an apology.A protest by Jewish groups outside Parliament was followed by the resignation of Christine Shawcroft, the chair of Labours internal disputes panel, after the leak of an email suggesting that she had supported a local candidate who was suspended over accusations of anti-Semitism.Opponents both inside the party and outside it have benefited politically from the crisis, which comes as the fortunes of Prime Minister Theresa May seem to have improved. It has also opened other divisions with one of the groups that campaigned for Britains withdrawal from the European Union, Leave E.U., arguing that Labour was uninterested in combating anti-Semitism because it relied on votes from Muslims.Nevertheless, senior leaders in the Labour Party appeared to have realized the damage the issue was inflicting, which may be why Momentum issued a declaration on Sunday acknowledging worries about anti-Semitism.These, it said should not and cannot be dismissed simply as right-wing smears, nor as the result of conspiracies.Momentum added that it was not a case of a few, extreme bad apples,  but an unconscious bias that is more widespread in the Labour Party than many of us had understood even a few months ago.But the impact of that unequivocal statement of intent to root out anti-Semitism was clouded by Mr. Corbyns decision to break bread with Jewdas members, allies seen as sharing his worldview.Jeremy Corbyn is a man of his political era and hasnt got the intellectual flexibility to move on from that, and to question some of his views, Professor Fielding said.That can be a strength. Thats why a lot of people joined the Labour Party under his leadership, he added. But it can also be a weakness, and it is frustrating to supporters of the wide project they hope Jeremy Corbyn can advance.
JERUSALEM   In an abrupt and startling reversal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu nixed his own deal Tuesday with the United Nations to resettle tens of thousands of African migrants in Israel and other Western nations, caving in to nationalist critics who have demonized the migrants for taking over poor neighborhoods in Tel Aviv.The move leaves unresolved one of Israel\'s most charged and divisive issues  what to do with the Africans who say they fled for their lives in search of sanctuary in the Jewish state.The about-face also opened Netanyahu to scathing assaults on his leadership, raising doubts about his ability to make controversial decisions on bigger issues in the future, including how he would respond to a peace plan promised by President Donald Trump.Netanyahu proudly announced the deal Monday in a nationally televised news conference, saying Israel had agreed to cancel a planned expulsion of tens of thousands of Africans that had been widely condemned both at home and among Jews around the world.Under the deal, roughly half of the 35,000 migrants living in Israel would be resettled in the West with the rest absorbed in Israel. Netanyahu praised it as a "good agreement" that marked "an important day" for Israel.But hours later, after heavy criticism among nationalists within his own ruling coalition, he said he was putting the plan on hold. After meeting angry residents of working-class neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv on Tuesday, Netanyahu said he was canceling it outright."From time to time there are decisions that have to be reconsidered," he said. "We will continue to act determinedly to exhaust all our options of removing the infiltrators."A coalition of human rights organizations in Israel said the flip-flop proved the government could not be trusted to fulfil any "moral, legal or international commitments."Domestic critics said it raised broader questions about whether Netanyahu could carry out any proper decision-making process."How will you, as prime minister, handle the Iranian threat? How will you deal with the cost of living?" asked Avi Gabbay, leader of the opposition Labor Party. "Lack of leadership, cowardice, escape from responsibility, incitement, empty slogans, inability to make decisions and zero ability to implement them  this is what we have seen over the past few hours from he who pretends to deal with the real threats and problems of Israel."The aborted U.N. deal had looked to avoid the specter of forced deportations to undisclosed African destinations, widely believed to be Rwanda and Uganda, with which Israel said it had reached a secret agreement. Israel had planned to begin the mass deportations on Sunday.The Hotline for Refugees and Migrants advocacy group said Netanyahu\'s initial announcement revealed there was no such agreement. Rather than resolving the migrants\' status, it said they were once again in limbo while the state had no legitimate recourse to deport any of them."Of course we will continue our struggle and consider all our legal options until every last asylum-seeker gets the status they deserve," said Dror Sadot, a spokeswoman for the group.Rwanda\'s minister of state for foreign affairs, Olivier Nduhungirehe, and Ugandan Foreign Affairs Minister Okello Oryem also said no deal had ever been signed with Israel.While nationalist activists celebrated Netanyahu\'s reversal, dozens of migrants and their Israeli supporters protested in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. Some stripped to the waist, draped themselves with chains and taped their mouths shut at a protest in Tel Aviv. Others waved signs reading, "Human lives are not to play with. Yes to the deal."Teklit Michael, a 29-year-old asylum-seeker from Eritrea, said that while he had unanswered questions about the U.N. draft he was at least encouraged about the efforts to address his needs. Now, he said, he was confused and dispirited."Not only do we have no security, we also have no one to believe," he said. "People have no hope and no trust in the state of Israel."In Geneva, the U.N. Refugee Agency expressed "disappointment" with Netanyahu\'s decision and urged him to reconsider. It noted that the deal had been reached after lengthy negotiations, and reflected a "shared effort" to find a solution that would benefit all parties."UNHCR continues to believe that a win-win agreement that would both benefit Israel and people needing asylum is in everyone\'s best interest," it said in a statement.Nearly all the migrants hail from war-torn Sudan and dictatorial Eritrea. The migrants say they are asylum-seekers fleeing danger and persecution, while Israeli leaders have dismissed them as mere job seekers.The Africans started arriving in 2005, after neighboring Egypt violently quashed a refugee demonstration and word spread of safety and job opportunities in Israel.Tens of thousands crossed the porous desert border before Israel completed a barrier in 2012 that stopped the influx. But Israel has struggled with what to do with those already in the country, alternating between plans to jail and deport them and allowing them to work in menial jobs.Thousands have concentrated in poor neighborhoods in south Tel Aviv, an area that has become known as "Little Africa." Their presence has sparked tensions with working-class Jewish residents, who have complained of rising crime and pressed the government to take action.On the other hand, a wide coalition of critics at home and in the Jewish American community had called the government\'s deportation plans unethical and a stain on Israel\'s image as a refuge for Jewish migrants.Groups of Israeli doctors, academics, Holocaust survivors, rabbis, poets and pilots had all appealed to halt the plan. Several mass protests against it have taken place in recent months.As in other recent moves, Netanyahu appears to have been taking his cues from his education minister, Naftali Bennett, leader of the nationalist Jewish Home party.Bennett and other nationalist allies who dominate Netanyahu\'s coalition had harshly criticized the deal because it would allow thousands of Africans to remain in Israel, even though it also called for them to be dispersed throughout the country and for investments to be made in rehabilitating Tel Aviv\'s impoverished southern neighborhoods.Ironically, their victory raised the possibility of leaving the migrants in Israel for even longer while their status is resolved.Nduhungirehe, Rwanda\'s foreign affairs minister, said that while no deal was ever signed with Israel, his country has a "general open policy" toward the migrants, as long as they come "without any form of constraint."But Oryem, Uganda\'s foreign affairs minister, said his country was not an option.If any migrants deported from Israel arrive in Uganda, "we will insist that the airlines return them to the country where they came from.""We do not have a contract, any understanding, formal or informal, with Israel for them to dump their refugees here," he said.____Associated Press writers Ignatius Ssuuna in Kigali, Rwanda, and Rodney Muhumuza in Kampala, Uganda, contributed to this report.____
In 1990, a lawyer named Mike Godwin made what would become a famous observation: As an online discussion grows longer, the probability that someone will draw a comparison involving Hitler or the Nazis approaches 100 percent. The internet has changed pretty significantly since then; its fascists, for instance, are a lot less hypothetical. But a more important development might be that the whole concept of online discussion has been radically reshaped by the technologies that drive it.If youd arrived on the internet in the 90s, youd have found many of its conversations playing out in places like Usenet groups, mailing lists and message boards  dork-friendly forums where debates had a habit of continuing, at tedious length, until theyd exhausted every possible rhetorical approach to the subject at hand, like a never-ending, dysfunctional undergraduate seminar with no professor and no purpose beyond, literally, the sake of argument. Many of them fostered a debate-club vibe, full of lawyerly hypotheticals and thought experiments, spitballing and modest proposals  and of course, so-called devils advocates, who engaged in the time-honored process of arguing one side of a proposition in order to test the others flaws.That name dates back to the 17th century, when the Roman Catholic Church created an office popularly known as the advocatus diaboli  a person tasked with making the case against the canonization of new saints, scrutinizing every report of their miracles and virtue. How could a claim be trusted, the thinking went, if it hadnt been rigorously tested? Plenty of educators will still tell you that devils advocacy isnt just useful as a practical matter but also as an intellectual exercise: Imagining other perspectives and plumbing their workings is essential to critical thinking.But on todays internet, the devils advocate is less admired than ever, and its often the advocates own fault. The problem isnt just debate-club tedium. Last year, on Slate, the writer Maya Rupert neatly outlined just how toxic devils advocates could be on a topic like race. She noted that they often seemed to be adopting the stance of a disinterested logician in order to air beliefs they knew were socially unacceptable to hold in earnest; the phrase just to play devils advocate, she wrote, had come to occupy the same role in her life as not to sound racist, but. ...  A black person continually asked to consider  just hypothetically, just for a moment  whether she was possibly inferior to other humans would have to be masochistically broad-minded to entertain this challenge more than a few times before dismissing it, and the sort of people who presented it, forever.And one more difference between the Godwins-law internet and todays is that there is now a much greater supply of that sort of person  all sorts of persons  sharing the same enormous communications platforms. Everything is both more crowded and more interconnected. Toss a thought into the digital ether, and strangers can drive by from any direction, doling out hypothetical challenges, probing your convictions at their leisure, demanding you justify yourself. And sometimes this is less like an undergraduate seminar and more like a man in a bus-station crowd grabbing you by the collar and slurring, Just for the sake of argument. ... A little more than a decade ago, around the same time online sentiment began to turn against the devils advocate, it also seized on a close cousin: the concern troll. If the devils advocate playacts disagreement with you for the sake of strengthening your argument, the concern troll is his mirror image, a person who pretends to agree with you in order to undermine you. The concern troll airs disingenuous worries, sows doubt, saps energy, has reservations, worries that things are going too far. At first, the term described purposeful double agents  people like the congressional staffer suspected, back in 2006, of posing as a Democrat to leave comments on liberal blogs suggesting everyone abandon the candidate vying for a Republican incumbents seat. But the term has evolved in such a way that, at this point, a person can very easily qualify as a concern troll without even knowing it.A tidy summary on the Geek Feminism Wiki site explains why this is the case: Even earnest concern-airing can be pernicious, turning every discussion into a battle over basic premises. An activist group trying to combat climate change, for instance, cannot afford to let every conversation devolve into a debate about whether climate change exists. Other concern trolls may insist that they agree with a group in theory despite consistently opposing it in practice. (According to that Wiki, they might view themselves as potential allies who have just, oddly, never met a feminist opinion they liked.) But as the definition has expanded, even honest critics  people who earnestly disagree with their peers, even by a very little bit  can find themselves accused of discursive sabotage.This confusion is not limited to liberal in-groups. A 2009 article in the conservative American Thinker suggested the following statement was a good example of diversionary trolling: The court has ruled that Obama is a U.S. citizen. I think its time for us to move on to more substantive issues. Before the 2016 election, the pro-Trump Reddit forum the_donald banned what it considered concern trolling, giving moderators license to boot any Trump supporter who might have pointed out, say, that the subreddit had become an alarming pit of hate speech. There is almost no variety of self-selecting online community where this dynamic doesnt hold at least some sway  a guardedness, whether overt or subtle, against taking time to entertain challenges or skepticism toward group dogma.Theres one very simple trend that might explain this, and a lot besides. As more people began to spend more of each day arguing about serious issues with strangers online, it became necessary to sort out which opinions could be summarily dismissed. So the devils advocate is pictured as a highhanded nerd popping up to play logic games in the face of pressing issues. Concern trolls are disingenuous drags on the conversation. Theres hand-wringing, derailing, distraction, tone policing, silencing, gaslighting, sea lioning  a label for every depressing rhetorical habit that could possibly present itself, each term a tool for narrowing down the number of ideas waiting in line for your consideration. Taken as a whole, this taxonomy feels both totally rational and slightly desperate  a way of insisting, against abundant evidence to the contrary, that a productive conversation remains possible.This is not a result of some sea change in human psychology. Its an issue of infrastructure. The types of arguments we once venerated  the kinds of critical-thinking dialectics that educators tell us hone the brains of students  make sense in orderly, deliberative settings, places like classrooms and courtrooms and Platonic dialogues. But that is not where online speech takes place anymore. Social-media platforms knocked out the walls of an infinite series of salons, turning them into one gigantic city square teeming with protests and counterprotests, each faction equipped with slogans and banners, each trying to command space and crowd out the opposition. They turned all speech into public pronouncements, and thus all conversation into a strange form of activism, part of a zero-sum battle over which ideas will find a foothold in our collective attention. In the midst of an information war, to express any opinion, sincerely or not, is seen as giving it space and therefore material support. Nobody stands in the middle of a march holding a sign that says, What if One of Our Demands Is Unwise?Its often argued that this makes our conversations increasingly polarized, dogmatic, intolerant of complexity and logically sloppy. Its less often pointed out that this might be because they arent really conversations in the first place.If theres any historical development over the past few years that has reinforced the new allergy to devils advocacy, its the ascent of actual fascists  people who exploit liberal norms in the interest of one day ending them. The A.C.L.U., once admired for its principled defense of even neo-Nazis speech rights, now meets with fierce criticism and internal dissent over it. This attitude feels like part of a culturewide push toward a kind of wartime moral clarity and passion  a desire to cut through all the airy deliberation and sophistry and for arguments sake considerations of a seminar conversation. It urges us to treat beliefs and opinions not as hypothetical comments on the world but as pieces of the world itself, and thus always in need of corrective action.There are clearly a great many people who welcome and embrace these developments. Then again, if any of them were, say, concerned about some of the side effects  or inclined to ask, just for the sake of argument, whether we might be pointing ourselves toward an atmosphere of unsubtle and unprincipled group sophistry  well, its unclear how much anyone would entertain that worry anyway.
On an unremarkable October morning in 2013, two Norwegian teenagers of Somalian descent  Ayan Juma, 19, and her sister, Leila, 16  woke up early, dressed and, without telling a soul, boarded a flight to join ISIS fighters in Syria.We love you both sooo much, they later wrote to their parents in an email festooned with heart emojis. Inshallah this decision will help us all on the day of judgment.They had been planning the secret journey for a year. Their goal, according to Ayan, was to flee home, marry and die. Their father set off after them, tracking them across ISIS territory  razed towns rank with rotting corpses. He was captured and brutally tortured.Two Sisters, a new book by the Norwegian journalist Asne Seierstad and translated by Sean Kinsella, begins in the aftermath of the girls departure, which stunned their family and tightknit Somali immigrant community: What had gotten into their girls  so educated, so adored?When Sara and Sadiq Juma arrived in Norway, Ayan was six and Leila three (the family also had three sons). Sara and Sadiq saw their daughters dabble in fundamentalism, as Seierstad puts it. They were taking Quran classes with a militant new teacher and begged to be allowed to wear niqabs. (You both look like devils, their father said, forbidding them.) But they were otherwise tractable, polite  never in danger of becoming too Norwegian, Sara thought with satisfaction. Not that there was ever much risk of Norway embracing the girls that closely; their classmates either ignored or taunted them. Leila passed through school without making a single friend.This is Seierstads second investigation into radicalization. One of Us (2015) told the story of Anders Behring Breivik, who murdered 77 people in Norway in 2011, most of them teenage members of a left-wing political youth organization. He said he was protesting Muslim immigration and Norways embrace of feminism. One of Us is a masterpiece of reportage, design and empathy  it shivers with feeling. By so scrupulously showing us what happened  to Breivik, to Norway  Seierstad enables us to understand why, how the seeds of grotesque political violence can so often be traced to decidedly apolitical, deeply private personal humiliations.Seierstad seems to set herself the same task in Two Sisters. For me, the most important question was: How could this happen?, she writes. But then, she demurs: I offer no explanation, neither of what attracted them to Islamic radicalism nor what propelled them out of Norway. I relate my findings. It is up to each reader to draw his or her own conclusions.Its a puzzling disclaimer, not least because any organization of facts, however simple, always requires  and reveals  an argument. And what we receive is, in fact, an elaborate narrative, full of explicit heroes and villains, written, she tells us, at the behest of the girls father, Sadiq. I want people to recognize the danger signs, he said. We were blind. We thought it would pass. Now we know better.This admission is tucked away at the very end, in an afterword. It explains the prickling feeling you might have while reading the book that information is being withheld, that Seierstad knows more than shes telling. Sadiqs influence over the text also explains why he is such an outsize figure in the narrative, and perhaps why his account is not subject to more scrutiny, given what an unreliable narrator he is  particularly, Seierstad shows us, where journalists are concerned.At one point, Sadiq interested documentary filmmakers in his story, telling them his daughters had begged him to rescue them (untrue). When the man he hired to kidnap them back refused the job, Sadiq concocted a fantastic story  that the hired man was caught, crucified and beheaded. It was easier than admitting to the filmmakers that he had lost control of his daughters, that he had failed as a father and as a man. This sort of thing  these lies to save face  occur with troubling frequency, and its strange that Seierstad refrains from commenting on them, especially since her own book is built on Sadiqs testimony.Seierstad is at her best when she pans out to consider the variety of reasons Western women join ISIS (by 2013, there were 3,000 Westerners in Syria, several hundred of them women), drawn by a hunger for sisterhood, adventure and membership in a society they felt was colorblind  where shared allegiances were more important than race. She evokes the life they find in ISIS-controlled territory in Syria  where boys are taken from their parents at 10 and placed in camps to be trained in combat, their final test being an execution. She quotes message boards where women wrote about their new lives: the houses given to fighters for free; groceries and stipends delivered monthly; free medical care. The sisters boasted to their brother about their large house and garden, their pet rabbits. As Sadiq survived imprisonment in a fetid latrine, the daughters he was risking everything to save were making pancakes in Raqqa, with sugar topping.But in general, the sisters and their transformations remain hazy, especially the strong-willed Ayan. At one point, her school essays sound like outtakes from SCUM Manifesto, by the radical feminist Valerie Solanas. In a piece entitled Womens Liberation, Ayan wrote: Whats worse, we have to give birth to little rat males who we look after and hold dear, right up until they turn from boys into men who in turn go on to oppress yet another woman. And, yet, a few years later she defended the rape of Yazidi and Kurdish women by ISIS fighters: Theyre not women, she told a friend. Theyre spoils of war.In her book The Brothers, about the Boston bombers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, Masha Gessen points out that religiosity has little to do with radicalization. Extremism more often follows crises in identity and in community, when other narratives of making sense of the self have fallen away. This is what becomes obvious every time the sisters in Seierstads book flicker into focus, when their voices can be heard, unmediated. This story of theirs has yet to be told  despite the resonant clues they left along the way  and even as it promises to be repeated by others.Ayan once wrote a fairy tale in school about two young girls who wanted to go out into the world and find themselves. At home they had always got everything they wanted, attended the best school, worn the newest clothes, but had never been given the opportunity to decide anything for themselves, something young women strongly desire, she wrote. Late one summer evening, when their parents were not at home, they wrote a text message: Mom, Dad, were going out for a while, dont wait up.


