LONDON   In Paris, the Eiffel Tower went dark. In London, a kaleidoscope of famous sites switched off their lights  Tower Bridge, Big Ben, Piccadilly Circus, Buckingham Palace, the London Eye.That scene was repeated over and over across the world on Saturday night: at Sydney\'s Opera House; at New Delhi\'s great arch; at Kuala Lumpur\'s Petronas Towers; at Edinburgh Castle in Scotland; at Berlin\'s Brandenburg Gate; at St. Basil\'s Cathedral in Moscow; at the Empire State Building in New York.It lasted for just an hour and its power is purely symbolic. But in countries around the world, at 8:30 p.m., people switched off their lights for Earth Hour, a global call for international unity on the importance of addressing climate change.Begun in Sydney in 2007, Earth Hour has spread to more than 180 countries, with tens of millions of people joining in, from turning off their own porch lights to letting the grand sites like the Opera House go dark.Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said 300 Paris buildings observed the blackout to send a "universal message."These 60 minutes are "an opportunity" to shift "the consumption culture and behavior change toward sustainability," Indian Environment Minister Harsh Vardhan said.All this happens and yet many people, of course, barely notice.Around India Gate, New Delhi\'s monument to the Indian dead in World War I, thousands embraced the city\'s nightly warm-weather ritual Saturday. They bought ice cream and cheap plastic trinkets. They flirted. Young children rode in electric carts that their parents rented for a few minutes at a stretch.But for an hour the arch stayed dark, a silent call for change.In Jordan, the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature arranged 11,440 candles on a hilltop in the capital of Amman, establishing a Guinness World Record for the largest candle mosaic.The candles spelled the Earth Hour motto of "60+." However, attempts to light the candles largely failed because of wind on the hilltop, which is close to the city\'s landmark, the Amman Citadel.
Bill Hader stars as a hit man yearning for a new life in Barry. And Stormy Daniels breaks her silence on 60 Minutes.BARRY 10:30 p.m. on HBO. One week removed from a triumphant return to Saturday Night Live, Bill Hader kick-starts a new era of his career with Barry. He plays a weary and tightly wound hit man who learned the skills of the trade in Afghanistan. But when he digs into the life of his next mark, an aspiring actor, he finds a passion for acting bubbling to the surface, and begins to take classes, much to the chagrin of his handler. You dont expect this comedy to find its target in the way it does, James Poniewozik wrote about this series in his New York Times review; he named it a Critics Pick.GREAT PERFORMANCES AT THE MET 12 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Last fall, the Met Opera was besieged by live sheep, ghostly violins, slamming doors and shattering dishes in Thomas Adss The Exterminating Angel. This riveting, breathless, score  full of quick-cutting shifts, pointillist bursts, and episodes of ballistic intensity  may be his best work, Anthony Tommasini wrote in his Times review. The opera, inspired by the classic Luis Buuel film of the same name, follows a hellish dinner party, where the guests find themselves unable to leave; the opera includes the highest note ever sung at the Met.60 MINUTES 7 p.m. on CBS. The sordid tale of the president and the pornographic film actress hits its next chapter as Stephanie Clifford, who goes by the stage name Stormy Daniels, sits down with Anderson Cooper to recount a relationship with Donald J. Trump in 2006 and 2007. (The interview took place in spite of a nondisclosure agreement, which she claims is void, and in spite of a threat of an injunction.)LEAVING EARTH: OR HOW TO COLONIZE A PLANET 8 p.m. on Smithsonian Channel. One of Stephen Hawkings last television projects is an exploration of his assertion that humans must leave Earth to survive  and should devise an escape plan within the next 100 years. It could be a new virus, climate change, nuclear war, artificial intelligence gone rogue: We must use your curiosity and intelligence to look to the stars, he says in this special. He and other scientists examine the various facets of how we might make the leap  from a plasma-powered rocket engine to giant greenhouses to NASAs robot army.CALL THE MIDWIFE 8 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). This British import has unflinchingly portrayed childbirth in all its messy glory for six seasons. Its more than a medical show, though, with the almost exclusively female ensemble cast weaving deep relationships and tackling social issues like abortion, incest and racism. The seventh season kicks off with two back-to-back episodes as the midwives of the Nonnatus House continue to endure the brutal winter of 1963 and await the arrival of a new midwife.
CAIRO   Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi is running virtually unopposed in this week\'s elections after a series of potentially serious candidates were arrested or withdrew from the race under pressure.The vote will be the least competitive of the three presidential elections held in Egypt since the 2011 uprising ended Hosni Mubarak\'s 29-year reign and raised hopes of democratic change.El-Sissi\'s only opponent is Moussa Mustafa Moussa, a little-known politician who supports the president and has made almost no effort to campaign against him.Here is a look at more serious contenders who failed to make the ballot.___AHMED SHAFIQA former air force general and Mubarak\'s last prime minister, Shafiq lived in self-imposed exile in the United Arab Emirates since shortly after finishing a close second in the 2012 presidential election won by the Islamist Mohammed Morsi. In December, he was deported from the Emirates, a close Egyptian ally, and flown back to Cairo after he announced he intended to run. He was met at the airport by unidentified security men and whisked away to a suburban hotel. Government representatives persuaded him to abandon his presidential ambitions, raising the specter of legal proceedings over alleged corruption during his tenure as civil aviation minister, according to numerous, unconfirmed reports. In January, he said did not believe himself to be the "ideal" man to lead the country at this stage.___SAMI ANNANThe former general quietly served as the military\'s chief of staff under Mubarak, drawing national attention only in the 17 months of military rule after Mubarak\'s ouster. As the deputy head of the then-ruling Supreme Military Council, he negotiated the transfer of power to Morsi in June 2012. Two months later, Morsi removed him. In January, he announced his intent to challenge el-Sissi and posted a video on social media that berated the president for involving the military in civilian affairs and urging civilian and military institutions to stay neutral in the race. On Jan. 23, the military detained him over charges that included incitement against the armed forces and forgery.___KHALED ALIThe prominent rights lawyer was the last potentially serious challenger until Jan. 24, when he announced he was quitting the race. He complained that authorities targeted his supporters and that poor Egyptians had been bribed by el-Sissi loyalists to sign documents supporting his candidacy. His own supporters faced delays and intimidation at notary offices, where they needed to register 25,000 "recommendations" for him to qualify as a candidate. A key left-leaning figure in the 2011 uprising, Ali had the potential to win protest votes and revive interest in street politics by fellow "revolutionaries" whose ranks have been depleted by imprisonment, exile or marginalization.___MOHAMMED ANWAR SADATThe former lawmaker said he quit the race because the climate was not conducive for campaigning and because he feared for the safety of his supporters. A nephew of Egypt\'s assassinated leader Anwar Sadat, he was thrown out of parliament amid allegations of leaking sensitive documents to foreign diplomats.___AHMED KONSOWAThe army colonel declared his intention to run, only to be court-martialed and convicted of breaching military regulations prohibiting political activism. He was sentenced to six years in prison in December.
CAIRO   This week\'s presidential election in Egypt is not about who wins  that was settled long ago  but about how many people bother to cast ballots.Authorities hope that enough people will vote for President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi to lend legitimacy to an election in which the only other candidate is an obscure politician who has made no effort to challenge him.The streets of Cairo are lined with campaign banners and posters extolling el-Sissi, most put up by businessmen or organizations hoping to advertise their support. El-Sissi has done little in the way of traditional campaigning, and has not publicly mentioned his ostensive challenger, Moussa Mustafa Moussa.A number of other presidential hopefuls stepped forward earlier this year, including some who might have attracted a sizable protest vote. But they were all either arrested or pressured to withdraw, making this the least competitive election since the 2011 uprising raised hopes of democratic change.The government nevertheless hopes that sizable turnout among the country\'s nearly 60 million eligible voters will lend legitimacy to the vote, and is giving Egyptians three days to cast their ballots, starting Monday."This election has a distinct populist dimension," said Ziad Akl, a senior researcher at the Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies. "The result of the election is already known, so a high turnout is the real prize here, which the regime will capitalize on."Instead of addressing any of the scores of rallies held by his supporters or appearing in TV ads, el-Sissi has opted for carefully scripted and televised functions. The former general has donned his military fatigues on recent occasions, highlighting the war on Islamic extremists and perhaps reminding voters that he led the military overthrow of a divisive Islamist president in the summer of 2013.Many Egyptians welcomed the overthrow of Mohammed Morsi and the crackdown on his Muslim Brotherhood group and for a time el-Sissi enjoyed a wave of popular support bordering on hysteria, with downtown shops selling chocolates with his portrait on them.But that aura has faded over the last four years, which could explain a clampdown ahead of the election on the media and critics.In the Sinai Peninsula, an insurgency that gained strength after Morsi\'s overthrow and is now led by the Islamic State group has only grown more ferocious, with regular attacks on security forces and deadly church bombings. An assault on a mosque in November killed more than 300 people  the worst terror attack in Egypt\'s modern history.The government has meanwhile enacted a series of long-overdue economic reforms  including painful subsidy cuts and the floatation of the currency. That improved the investment climate and earned Egypt a $12 billion bailout loan from the International Monetary Fund. But the austerity measures sent prices soaring, exacting a heavy toll on ordinary Egyptians, especially the more than 25 percent living below the poverty line.If there have been few public signs of discontent, it is likely because of a massive crackdown on dissent. Thousands of Islamists and several leading secular activists have been jailed, and unauthorized protests have been outlawed. The media is dominated by virulently pro-government commentators and hundreds of websites have been blocked. Independent journalists have been arrested or deported. In late February, authorities expelled The Times of London correspondent Bel Trew, arresting her after she conducted an interview in Cairo\'s central Shoubra district, saying she did not have valid accreditation and was filming without a permit.Most of the local media coverage of the election has consisted of el-Sissi delivering televised speeches and attending official functions, with little mention of politics.El-Sissi cultivates the image of a folksy populist, going on at length about his devotion to God, his reverence for his late mother, and his love for Egypt. In a one-hour puff piece TV interview, el-Sissi said he wished he had one or two trillion dollars of his own money that he could spend on modernizing the country.At a ceremony commemorating soldiers who fell in battle fighting Islamic militants, he appeared close to tears as he listened to the stories of widows and mothers. Two children who lost their fathers, and who were outfitted in military uniforms, sat on his lap. He was later photographed feeding them cake.In the televised interview, el-Sissi insisted that the lack of candidates was "completely not my fault.""Really, I swear, I wish there were one or two or even 10 of the best people and you would get to choose whoever you want," he said. "We are just not ready."Other presidential hopefuls had come forward.But Ahmed Shafiq, a former air force general who narrowly lost the 2012 election to Morsi, withdrew after he was deported from his self-imposed exile in the United Arab Emirates, met by security officers at the Cairo airport and whisked away to a hotel.Former military Chief of Staff Sami Anan was detained by the military after announcing his intention to run. His chief aide, former chief auditor Hisham Genena, was beaten by unidentified men outside his home. He too was arrested weeks later, after saying he had documents incriminating Egypt\'s "leadership" in unspecified violations.Khaled Ali, a prominent human rights lawyer involved in the 2011 uprising, said he quit the race after authorities harassed and intimidated his supporters. Mohammed Anwar Sadat, a former lawmaker and the nephew of assassinated President Anwar Sadat, declined to run on similar grounds.At a ceremony last week in honor of Mother\'s Day, celebrated at the start of spring in Egypt, el-Sissi urged people to cast ballots, saying it would be a "great and respectable thing" even if they voted "no." It was probably a slip of the tongue, but pointed to the reality of the election, which resembles the yes-or-no referendums held by Mubarak and other Arab autocrats going back decades."I need every woman, mother and sister, please. I won\'t tell you it\'s for my sake, but it\'s for the sake of our country," he said. "I need the whole world to see us on the streets."___Associated Press writer Menna Zaki contributed to this report.
