BILLINGS, Mont.   Declines in coal power plant construction in China, India and the U.S. are projected to push the heavily-polluting fuel over the edge but not fast enough to meet international climate change goals, environmental groups said Wednesday.Coal\'s dominance as the fuel of choice for generating electricity has been slipping as cheap natural gas and renewable energy sources challenge its decades-long reign.A joint report by the groups CoalSwarm, Sierra Club and Greenpeace projects that by 2022 retirements of older, more polluting coal plants will outpace new plant construction for the first time in the modern era.The findings are in line with data from the International Energy Agency, which recently declared coal was in a "decade of stagnation" with demand declining at a level last seen in the early 1990s.Having fewer coal-fired plants would bolster international efforts to move away from the cheap and widely available fuel. Coal accounted for about 70 percent of worldwide power sector emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide in 2016, according to the International Energy Agency estimates.Yet the authors of Wednesday\'s report and independent analysts agree the pace of decline is still too slow to meet the goals of the Paris climate accord. The 2015 agreement was intended to fend off the worst effects of climate change by holding global temperature increases to no more than 2 degrees centigrade (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit)."There is no way that we see right now that you can hold to a two-degree centigrade limit like scientists want us to if coal is in the mix," said Andy Roberts, global coal research director for the consulting firm Wood Mackenzie. "The wild card in all that is the research dollars being spent in renewable energy...That could be a game changer."In the U.S., President Donald Trump\'s vociferous promotion of coal has had at best a modest impact on the industry. Wednesday\'s report noted that the U.S. currently has no new coal plants under construction.In India and China, coal project cancellations have been growing as the world\'s two most populous nations struggle to clear polluted skies that have had dramatic negative health impacts.Combined, they\'ve shelved more than 500 gigawatts of coal projects that were once on the drawing board  equivalent to more than 1,000 coal-burning power units, according to CoalSwarm director Ted Nace.Still, there are pockets of expected growth, according to Roberts and other observers, with new plants expected to go up in southeast Asia, Turkey and Pakistan.In China  by far the world\'s largest coal consumer  the amount of coal that was mined increased about 3 percent in 2017 to reverse a dramatic drop the previous year, according to government figures. That reflects the stance by China\'s leaders that coal will remain a key piece of its ongoing economic expansion, even as the communist nation has become the world leader in renewable energy development.Pointing to China\'s example, industry representatives stress that coal remains essential to balancing the global energy budget into the foreseeable future. Potential increases in India and southeast Asia "will be the driving force of demand for coal in the decades to come," said Benjamin Sporton, chief executive of the World Coal Association."To put in some context, even with the cancellation of some proposed plants, planned capacity additions in India are still more than three times greater than Germany, a major coal user," Sporton said in a statement released by the London-based organization in response to Wednesday\'s report.The group did not directly dispute the claim that coal\'s growth in the power sector will peak by 2022.Meanwhile, finding money to build coal plants is getting harder, Roberts said. That\'s driven in part by some major investors such as pension funds and multinational insurance companies that have pledged to stay away from coal projects because of their air pollution and climate impacts.The head of Storebrand Asset Management, Norway\'s largest private asset manager with more than $90 billion under management, Jan Erik Saugestad said coal investors "are living on borrowed time" as institutional money instead pours into solar and wind projects. Storebrand began divesting from coal in 2013.___Follow Matthew Brown on Twitter at @matthewbrownap___This story has been corrected to reflect the accurate spelling of Andy Roberts\' first name.
LONDON   Global energy-related carbon emissions rose to a historic high of 32.5 gigatons last year, after three years of being flat, due to higher energy demand and the slowing of energy efficiency improvements, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said.Global energy demand rose by 2.1 percent last year to 14,050 million tonnes of oil equivalent, more than twice the previous year\'s rate, boosted by strong economic growth, according to preliminary estimates from the IEA.Energy demand rose by 0.9 percent in 2016 and 0.9 percent on average over the previous five years.Over 70 percent of global energy demand growth was met by oil, natural gas and coal, while renewables accounted for almost all of the rest, the IEA said in a report.Improvements in energy efficiency slowed last year. As a result of these trends, global energy-related carbon dioxide emissions increased by 1.4 percent in 2017 to 32.5 gigatons, a record high."The significant growth in global energy-related carbon dioxide emissions in 2017 tells us that current efforts to combat climate change are far from sufficient," said Fatih Birol, the IEA\'s executive director."For example, there has been a dramatic slowdown in the rate of improvement in global energy efficiency as policy makers have put less focus in this area."Carbon dioxide emissions are the primary cause of global average temperature rise, which countries are seeking to curb to avoid the most devastating effects of climate change.At talks in Germany late last year among almost 200 nations about details of a global climate accord, scientists presented data showing that world carbon emissions were set to rise 2 percent in 2017 to a new record.EMISSIONS"Global emissions need to peak soon and decline steeply to 2020; this decline will now need to be even greater given the increase in emissions in 2017," the IEA said in its report.The IEA said Asian countries accounted for two thirds of the global increase in emissions. China\'s emissions rose by 1.7 percent to 9.1 gigatons, limited by renewables deployment and more rapid switching to gas from coal.Most major economies saw an increase in carbon emissions, though Britain, the United States, Mexico and Japan experienced declines.The biggest drop came from the United States, where they were down 0.5 percent to 4.8 gigatons due to higher renewables deployment.The IEA said oil demand grew by 1.6 percent, or 1.5 million barrels a day, more than twice the average annual rate over the past decade, driven by the transport sector and rising petrochemical demand.Natural gas consumption grew by 3 percent - the most of all fossil fuels - with China alone accounting for nearly a third of the growth. This was largely due to abundant and relatively low-cost supplies, the IEA said.Coal demand was 1 percent higher last year, reversing declines over the previous two years, due to rises in coal-fired electricity generation, mostly in Asia.However, renewables-based electricity generation rose by 6.3 percent, due to the expansion of wind, solar and hydropower. Renewables had the highest growth rate of any energy source, meeting a quarter of world energy demand growth, the IEA said.(Reporting by Nina Chestney; Editing by Mark Potter)
NEW ORLEANS   The effects of global warming can be seen and touched in Louisiana, where officials have begun buying higher ground to relocate an entire town in a bayou being swallowed by higher seas.The Louisiana Office of Community Development announced Tuesday that it will spend $11.7 million on a 515-acre (208-hectare) tract of high ground to house about 80 residents of Isle de Jean Charles, an island that has lost 98 percent of its land area since 1955 as sea levels rise due to climate change. Most are Native Americans, members of the Biloxi-Chitimacha-Choctaw Indians and the United Houma Nation.Groundbreaking is expected next year at the resettlement project near Schriever in northern Terrebonne Parish  the culmination of many years of planning for people who long survived in isolation along Lousiana\'s swampy coast.Some in Isle de Jean Charles are concerned that 2019 may be too long a wait for homes to be built at the location, however."We\'re going to have to go through another hurricane season, maybe two," Albert Naquin, chief of the Biloxi-Chitimacha-Choctaw Indians told NOLA.com/The Times-Picayune in December. "That makes us very, very edgy."Naquin did not immediately respond Wednesday to a request for comment from The Associated Press. Messages left for tribal council members of the United Houma Nation, which also is affected by the project, were not immediately returned.Isle de Jean Charles has been the full-time home to the band of the Biloxi-Chitimacha-Choctaw tribe for more than 170 years, since Native Americans were uprooted from better lands across the young United States during what became known as the Trail of Tears. Barred by law from buying land elsewhere, these families found swampland that the state considered uninhabitable and made it their home.In 2016, Isle de Jean Charles became the first community in the U.S. to receive federal assistance for a large-scale retreat from the effects of climate change. About $48 million was allotted to purchase land, build homes and move the island\'s remaining people.Pat Forbes, who directs the state\'s community development agency, said in a statement that a majority of the island\'s residents prefer the Terrebonne Parish site for what will become their new home."This is not to say that they want to leave the island, but the island is, in effect, leaving them," Forbes said.The proposed resettlement is closer to stores, schools and health care and is less flood-prone than the island, which has been continually battered by hurricanes and tropical storms."Unfortunately, coastal Louisiana is experiencing subsidence, relative sea level rise and coastal land loss faster than anywhere in the country. Fortunately, we\'re also on the leading edge of resilience-building approaches to adaptation, drawing on innovative science and technology right here in Louisiana," Forbes said.Louisiana hopes the resettlement will serve as a model for other coastal communities facing these same risks, but "we also know success depends on due consideration of the island\'s history, as well as the needs of the residents," said Mat Sanders, the department\'s resilience policy and program administrator.The state agency hosted four community meetings for current and former residents of Isle de Jean Charles to collaborate on new community\'s design. The discussions included site preferences, budget considerations and off-island housing where residents can stay during the transition. A steering committee of residents and other stakeholders meets with the planning team each month to review the resettlement\'s progress.
OSLO   Norway said on Thursday it wants to buy electric passenger planes in the coming years to help slow climate change, building on its success with big tax breaks that have made it the world leader in electric car sales.State firm Avinor, which runs 45 airports in Norway, said the commitment to battery-powered aircraft could encourage development of electric and hybrid technologies by companies such as Airbus or Boeing."In my mind, there\'s no doubt that by 2040 Norway will be operating totally electric" on short-haul flights, Dag Falk-Pedersen, head of Avinor, told reporters at an aviation conference in Oslo.Among airlines, "Airbus told us they need a customer and they need a market - and we can offer them both," he said. "Of course they need a bigger market and more customers. But someone has to start."Norway, a mountainous country of 5 million people with towns beside remote fjords, would be ideal for electric planes which can accelerate faster than conventional planes and so need shorter runways, he said.But electric planes so far have big problems of weight, with bulky batteries, and limited ranges. The first electric planes flew across the English Channel in July 2015, including an Airbus E-Fan."It could be that we are presenting a tender within a year or two to the market to commercialize electric aircraft," Falk-Pedersen said, adding that such a tender might be for 5 to 15 planes of between 12 and 50 seats.Norway\'s Transport Minister Ketil Solvik-Olsen said Oslo would try to repeat its success in promoting electric cars, backed by tax breaks and other perks such as free parking and recharging points.Last year, more than half of new cars sold in Norway were electric or hybrid, the highest rate in the world. But he admitted "when we talk about battery driven planes there\'s no doubt that most people are a bit skeptical".Norway\'s centre-right government, in a political platform worked out in January, told Avinor to work to shift to electric planes in commercial transport and promote use of biofuels.Norway, western Europe\'s biggest oil and gas producer, has struggled to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions which were three percent above 1990 levels in 2016.In November, Airbus, Rolls-Royce, and Siemens teamed up to develop a hybrid electric engine.And in October, a Seattle-area start-up, backed by the venture capital arms of Boeing and JetBlue Airways Corp also announced plans to bring a hybrid-electric aircraft, with up to 12 passengers, to market by 2022.(Reporting by Alister Doyle; Editing by Alison Williams)
LAS VEGAS/HONG KONG   Best Buy Co Inc, the largest U.S. consumer electronics retailer, will cut ties with China\'s Huawei Technologies Co Ltd, a person familiar with the matter said, amid heightened scrutiny on Chinese tech firms in the United States.Best Buy will stop selling Huawei\'s devices over the next few weeks, according to the person with knowledge of the matter, a setback for the Chinese telecommunications giant as it looks to expand in the U.S. market.The move, after similar actions from U.S. carriers including AT&T Inc, comes as U.S. scrutiny of Chinese tech firms grows amid simmering tensions over U.S.-China trade and concerns of security.A Best Buy spokesman told Reuters the firm  could not comment on specific contracts with vendors. "We make decisions to change what we sell for a variety of reasons," he said.Huawei said in emailed comments on Thursday that it valued its relationship with Best Buy but could not discuss details of its partnership with the U.S. firm."Huawei currently sells its products through a range of leading consumer electronics retailers in the U.S.," the firm said, adding its products met the "highest security, privacy and engineering standards in the industry".Earlier this year, AT&T was forced to scrap a plan to offer Huawei handsets after some members of Congress lobbied against the idea with federal regulators, sources told Reuters. Verizon Communications Inc also ended its plans to sell Huawei phones last year, according to media reports.Last month two Republican Senators introduced legislation that would block the U.S. government from buying or leasing telecommunications equipment from Huawei or Chinese peer ZTE Corp, citing concern the firms would use their access to spy on U.S. officials.The tougher climate in the United States has forced Huawei to sell its flagship smartphone Mate 10 Pro - its challenger to the iPhone - in the United States only through open channels.U.S tech and electronics website CNET.com first reported the termination of the agreement on Wednesday.(Reporting by Nandita Bose in LAS VEGAS and Sijia Jiang in HONG KONG; additional reporting by Abinaya Vijayaraghavan in Bengaluru; Writing by Adam Jourdan; Editing by Sunil Nair & Shri Navaratnam)
UNITED NATIONS   Secretary-General Antonio Guterres put a spotlight on the global water crisis on World Water Day, saying Thursday that over 2 billion people lack access to safe water and more than 3 billion are affected by the scarcity of water.The U.N. chief warned that by 2050, "at least one in four people will live in a country where the lack of fresh water will be chronic or recurrent."He told diplomats and activists at the launch of the International Decade for Action on Water for Sustainable Development that "water is a matter of life and death," stressing that humans, cities, industries and agriculture depend on it."But growing demands for water, coupled with poor water management, have increased water stress in many parts of the world," Guterres said. "Climate change is adding to the pressure  and it is running faster than we are."The secretary-general said more than 4.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation, 80 percent of wastewater is discharged into the environment without being treated, "and more than 90 percent of disasters are water-related.""The growing water crisis should be much higher on the world\'s radar," Guterres stressed.He said he has prepared an action plan to achieve U.N. goals for 2030, which include providing clean water and sanitation, protecting the environment, promoting economic development and achieving "zero hunger."Guterres said it\'s time to change "how we value and manage water."In low-income countries, he said, women and girls "spend some 40 billion hours a year collecting water," equivalent to the entire workforce of a country like France. That time could be much better spent working, or in the case of girls going to school, he said.According to the U.N. World Water Development Report released this week, "the global demand for water has been increasing at a rate of about 1 percent per year as a function of population growth, economic development and changing consumption patterns, among other factors  and it will continue to grow significantly over the next two decades."In a statement at the launch, the 23 countries in the Group of Friends on Desertification, Land Degradation and Drought said a third of the planet\'s land "is severely degraded, and fertile soil is being lost at the rate of 24 billion tons a year."The group mainly contributed those problems to water shortages."Three-quarters of the Earth is covered with water," it said. "Yet, only 2.5 percent is fresh water, and of this, less than 1 percent is available to sustain all terrestrial life and ecosystems."General Assembly President Miroslav Lajcak said competition for water is also growing. "And so is the risk that this competition could turn violent, and result in conflict  and therefore more human suffering," he said.He called for greater cooperation, investment and innovation and said all governments must make water and sanitation top priorities.On the innovation front, Israeli Ambassador Danny Danon hosted a forum Thursday to present the latest water solutions from the country\'s public and private sector, which he said are used in more than 100 countries around the world.Among the technologies presented were innovations that generate water from air and a device that produces pure drinking water from contaminated sources in difficult conditions.

BENGALURU/LONDON   Rio Tinto is to sell its 75 percent stake in a Queensland project to Australia\'s Whitehaven Coal for $200 million, in its second deal this week to shed coal assets.Rio is also in the process of selling its remaining Australian coal asset - a stake in the Kestrel underground mine."We believe this agreement for the sale of Winchester South represents the best option for the future development of the project while delivering attractive value for Rio Tinto," Rio Tinto CEO Jean-Sebastien Jacques said in a statement.The deal, subject to Australian regulatory approvals, is broken down into $150 million payable to Rio Tinto by Whitehaven on the date of completion and a further unconditional payment of $50 million payable a year later.Whitehaven Coal said it would fund the purchase with cash and existing facilities and it was expected to conclude in the second quarter.Retail property manager Scentre Group has the remaining 25 percent stake in Winchester South.Once developed, Winchester South is expected to produce coking and thermal coal.Whitehaven Coal Managing Director and CEO Paul Flynn said the project was "a significant strategic acquisition," which complemented existing assets and tallied with a longer term plan to meet Asian demand for premium quality coking coal.Glencore, the world\'s biggest shipper of export grade coal, has also said it expects to continue to find value in high quality coal.Rio Tinto on Tuesday announced it had agreed to sell to Glencore the Hail Creek coal mine and Valeria coal project in Australia for $1.7 billion.Sven Reinke, Senior Vice President, and Anke Richter, Associate Managing Director at Moody\'s, said in an emailed statement on Thursday Glencore\'s purchase was "credit positive"."The proximity to Glencore\'s existing operations and the existing infrastructure offers material potential to realise synergies and could result in a short pay back period of around 5 years," he said.Some investors shun the fuel because of concerns about climate change and because more environmental alternatives are becoming more competitive.Coal miners\' profits have this year been boosted by a coal price rally.Those bullish about coal say falls in investment have tightened the market, increasing the value of a commodity still favoured in parts of the world as a cheap, easy source of power.Whitehaven Coal posted a 63 percent rise in first-half net profit, while Glencore and the other majors have rallied strongly from the deep commodity markets crash of 2015-16.Rio Tinto\'s share price was trading 1.9 percent lower by 1155 GMT in London trade, slightly underperforming the broader index. Whitehaven closed down 1.5 percent in Australia."Rio is cleaning up the portfolio and generating some pretty decent cashflow in the process," analyst Paul Gait of Bernstein said.(Editing by Sherry Jacob-Phillips, Subhranshu Sahu and Jane Merriman)
KIBBUTZ ZEELIM, Israel   Hawks, vultures and storks circle overhead as Christopher Sveen points at the heap of refuse rotting in the desert heat. "This is the mine of the future," he beams.Sveen is chief sustainability officer at UBQ, an Israeli company that has patented a process to convert household trash, diverting waste from landfills into reusable bio-based plastic.After five years of development, the company is bringing its operations online, with hopes of revolutionizing waste management and being a driver to make landfills obsolete. It remains to be seen, however, if the technology really works and is commercially viable.UBQ operates a pilot plant and research facility on the edge of southern Israel\'s Negev Desert, where it has developed its production line."We take something that is not only not useful, but that creates a lot of damage to our planet, and we\'re able to turn it into the things we use every day," said Albert Douer, UBQ\'s executive chairman. He said UBQ\'s material can be used as a substitute for conventional petrochemical plastics and wood, reducing oil consumption and deforestation.UBQ has raised $30 million from private investors, including Douer, who is also chief executive of Ajover Darnel Group, an international plastics conglomerate.Leading experts and scientists serve on its advisory board, including Nobel Prize chemist Roger Kornberg, Hebrew University biochemist Oded Shoseyov, author and entrepreneur John Elkington and Connie Hedegaard, a former European Commissioner for Climate Action.The small plant can process one ton of municipal waste per hour, a relatively small amount that would not meet the needs of even a midsize city. But UBQ says that given the modularity, it can be quickly expanded.On a recent day, UBQ Chief Executive Tato Bigio stood alongside bales of sorted trash hauled in from a local landfill.He said recyclable items like glass, metals and minerals are extracted and sent for further recycling, while the remaining garbage  "banana peels, the chicken bones and the hamburger, the dirty plastics, the dirty cartons, the dirty papers"  is dried and milled into a powder.The steely gray powder then enters a reaction chamber, where it is broken down and reconstituted as a bio-based plastic-like composite material. UBQ says its closely-guarded patented process produces no greenhouse gas emissions or residual waste byproducts, and uses little energy and no water.According to the United Nations Environment Program, 5 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions are produced by decomposing organic material in landfills. Roughly half is methane, which over two decades is 86 times as potent for global warming as carbon dioxide, according to the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.For every ton of material produced, UBQ says it prevents between three and 30 tons of CO2 from being created by keeping waste out of landfills and decomposing.UBQ says its material can be used as an additive to conventional plastics. It says 10-15 percent is enough to make a plastic carbon-neutral by offsetting the generation of methane and carbon dioxide in landfills. It can be molded into bricks, beams, planters, cans, and construction materials. Unlike most plastics, UBQ says its material doesn\'t degrade when it\'s recycled.The company says converting waste into marketable products is profitable, and likely to succeed in the long run without government subsidies."What we do is we try to position ourselves at the end of the value chain, or at the end of the waste management hierarchy," Sveen said. "So rather than that waste going to a landfill or being incinerated, that\'s kind of our waste feedstock."The wonder plastic isn\'t without its skeptics, however. Duane Priddy, chief executive of the Plastic Expert Group, said UBQ\'s claims were "too good to be true" and likened it to alchemy."Chemists have been trying to convert lead to gold for centuries, without success," Priddy, a former principal scientist at Dow Chemical, said in an email to The Associated Press. "Likewise, chemists have been trying to convert garbage to plastic for several decades."UBQ said it is confident its technology will prove the skeptics wrong. "We understand that\'s people\'s perceptions. We hope to convince them in a professional and scientific manner," Sveen said.Even if its technology is ultimately successful, UBQ faces questions about its long-term viability. Building additional plants could be expensive and time-consuming. It also needs to prove there is a market for its plastic products. The company said it is negotiating deals with major customers, but declined to identify them or say when the contracts would go into effect.The U.N. Environment Program has made solid waste disposal a central issue to combatting pollution worldwide. Landfills contaminate air, water and soil, and take up limited land and resources. A December 2017 report by the international body devoted five of its 50 anti-pollution measures to reducing and processing solid waste."Every year, an estimated 11.2 billion tons of solid waste are collected worldwide," the organization says. "The solution, in the first place, is the minimization of waste. Where waste cannot be avoided, recovery of materials and energy from waste as well as remanufacturing and recycling waste into usable products should be the second option."Israel lags behind other developed countries in waste disposal. The country of roughly 8 million people generated 5.3 million metric tons of garbage in 2016, according to the Environment Ministry. Over 80 percent of that trash ended up in increasingly crowded landfills. A third of Israel\'s landfill garbage is food scraps, which decompose and produce greenhouse gases like methane and carbon dioxide.To UBQ, that means a nearly limitless supply of raw material."The fact is that the majority of waste goes to a landfill or is leaked into our natural environments because there simply aren\'t holistic and economically viable technologies out there," said Sveen.

LIMA   Anti-graft prosecutors in Peru on Wednesday asked a judge to bar President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski from leaving the South American country hours after he announced his resignation in the face of near-certain impeachment, a judiciary source told Reuters.Kuczynski, a 79-year-old former Wall Street banker who once held U.S. citizenship, is guaranteed presidential immunity from prosecution until Congress formally accepts his resignation and Vice President Martin Vizcarra is sworn in to replace him.Luis Galarreta, the president of Congress, said that would probably happen on Friday.Kuczynski denies wrongdoing and has promised to cooperate with a graft probe into his connections to Odebrecht, a Brazilian construction company that has acknowledged bribing officials across Latin America.The rightwing opposition party that controls Congress, Popular Force, first sought to force Kuczynski from office in December after revealing he failed to disclose payments Odebrecht made to his Flordia-based consulting firm while he held public office in a previous government.Kuczynski had vowed not to resign for months, blaming the rightwing opposition for constant scandals that he said had made it impossible for him to govern Peru, one of Latin America\'s most stable markets and the world\'s No. 2 producer of copper.But secret audio and video recordings released this week ensnared Kuczynski in vote-buying allegations that prompted even his staunchest supporters to demand he step down.Kuczynski said the material, in which his allies are heard offering access to lucrative public work contracts in exchange for political support, had been edited as part of a relentless campaign to malign him.But the hostile political climate had become untenable, he added."I think what\'s best for the country is for me to resign...I don\'t want to be an obstacle for the nation\'s search for a path to unity and harmony," Kuczynski said in a pre-recorded video televised as he was driven from the presidential palace to his home in Lima\'s financial district.MARKETS RALLYKuczynski\'s announcement marked a spectacular downfall for a man elected less than two years ago amid hopes he would turbocharge growth while cleaning up government corruption and modernizing the Andean nation of about 30 million people.Markets that had cheered Kuczynski\'s rise to power in 2016 rallied on news of his departure on Wednesday, amid expectations it would end the political uncertainty that had loomed over the nearly $200-billion economy, just as higher copper prices were reviving investor interest.Peru\'s sol currency gained 0.5 percent against the dollar on Wednesday, and stocks closed up 1 percent.But Kuczynski\'s future looked less bright.Prosecutors in a special anti-corruption unit in the attorney general\'s office told a judge Kuczynski should not be allowed to leave the country, the judiciary source said, speaking on condition of anonymity.Kuczynski said as a candidate in 2016 that he had renounced his U.S. citizenship in order to launch his bid. Last month, U.S. Ambassador to Peru Krishna Urs declined to confirm that  Kuczynski no longer had citizenship.Kuczynski\'s office did not immediately respond to requests for comment.TRUMP TO HEAD TO PERUPeru has a history of jailing former presidents, and of presidents fleeing.Former authoritarian president Alberto Fujimori fled Peru for his parents\' native Japan as his decade in power ended in a corruption scandal and protests.Last year, former president Ollanta Humala, Kuczynski\'s predecessor, was ordered up to 18 months in pre-trial detention while prosecutors prepare charges related to Odebrecht.Kuczynski had been scheduled to welcome Donald Trump on the U.S. president\'s first visit to Latin America next month, when many regional leaders plan to pressure Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro to pursue democratic reforms.Kuczynski, who called Maduro a "dictator" in an interview with Reuters last year, had led regional criticism of his government while opening the door to Venezuelan migrants fleeing the country\'s economic crisis.A White House official, speaking on background, said Trump still plans to attend the summit and declined to comment on Peru\'s domestic political situation.Instead of Kuczynski, Trump will meet Vizcarra at the Summit of the Americas that Peru will host on April 13 and 14.A former governor of a mining region, Vizcarra once helped broker Anglo American Plc secure community support for its copper project, Quellaveco, and has served as Peru\'s ambassador to Canada since September.But Vizcarra will take office amid widespread demands for change after constant political crises and corruption scandals have eroded trust in institutions and political leaders.Vizcarra took to Twitter from Canada to call for unity."I\'m outraged by the current situation, like the majority of Peruvians," Vizcarra said in his first public comments since Kuczynski announced his resignation. "But I\'m convinced that together we can show that we can once more push forward."In recent days, Vizcarra has received public assurances from opposition lawmakers that they will let him govern, something Kuczynski said he had been denied."I\'ve worked for nearly 60 years of my life with complete honesty," Kuczynski added. "The opposition has tried to depict me as a corrupt person."(Reporting by Mitra Taj and Marco Aquino; Additional Reporting by Teresa Cespedes and Maria Cervantes in Lima and Roberta Rampton in Washignton; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Lisa Shumaker)

Our guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ALL FOR LOVE ADOPTION RALLY at the North Plaza, Union Square Park (March 25, noon-5 p.m.). If you think youre ready to add a new member to your family  a furry one, that is  this could be the ideal occasion. Presented by the Petco Foundation and supported by groups including the Mayors Alliance for NYC Animals, this rally will offer more than 200 adoptable dogs, cats and rabbits, all vaccinated and spayed or neutered. Although the pets arent free, admission is, along with expert advice on dog training. The New Jersey-based cartoonist and childrens book author Patrick McDonnell, known for his comic strip Mutts, will attend, presiding over the assemblage of a huge mosaic mural of photographs of owners and their adopted four-legged friends.animalalliancenyc.orgA FOOLS ERRAND (ESPIGLERIE) at BAM Fisher (March 24-25, 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.). Dont judge a show by its title. Although this Montreal-based circus production has plenty of foolishness, its unlikely to strike young audiences as a fruitless enterprise. Part of the BAMkids series at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, it stars Jamie Adkins, a clown and acrobat, and Julie Houle, a composer and musician whose instrument  the tuba  comes loaded with comic potential. Mr. Adkinss instrument is his body, which he uses intriguingly, whether hes navigating a tightrope or juggling with his mouth as well as his hands. (The Saturday afternoon performance is quieter and more relaxed, with accommodations for children on the autism spectrum.)718-636-4100, bam.org/kidsINVENTGENUITY FESTIVAL at the Brooklyn New School (March 24-25, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.). Ah, spring. You may not yet smell it in the air, but if you admire its creative energy  and the power of the nose itself  visit this fair, which offers immersion in engineering, technology and art for children 7 and older. Its sponsor, the Beam Center, a Brooklyn educational nonprofit, has devoted this years event to the theme Nose/Knows. Participants can collaborate on The OlFactory Conspiracy  a project designed by the artist Tim Fite and the centers staff, in which theyll make noses to attach to a massive sculpture of that organ  or attend individual workshops. Devoted to crafting items like personalized hankies, aromatic soap and noses that literally run (theyre mechanized clay models), the 45-minute sessions each require a small fee, but festival admission and drop-in activities are free. You need only register in advance  and have a nose for fun. 347-470-6747, beamcenter.org/festivalJAZZ FOR YOUNG PEOPLE: WHO IS MARY LOU WILLIAMS? at the Rose Theater (March 24, 1 and 3 p.m.). Jazz history was dominated by men, and women often struggled to be heard  in every sense of that phrase. But the talent and creativity of Mary Lou Williams (1910-81) resounded at an early age. This final family concert in Jazz at Lincoln Centers season will trace Williamss life and her career as a pianist, composer and arranger. Fittingly, the jazz singer Catherine Russell will host the program, and an all-female band, led by the drummer LaFrae Sci, will demonstrate Williamss work.212-721-6500, jazz.orgSEEING INTO TOMORROW: HAIKU BY RICHARD WRIGHT BOOK PARTY at Aaron Davis Hall, City College (March 24, 2 p.m.). Black children still dont appear in books for the young as often as white ones do. The author and illustrator Nina Crews helps redress that imbalance with her latest work, which pairs haiku by Richard Wright (1908-60), best known for the novels Black Boy and Native Son, with her own photographic collages of African-American boys in natural settings. At this free celebration, Ms. Crews will read from Seeing Into Tomorrow, and children can take part in their own haiku-writing exercise, as well as a collage activity, dance classes and a storytelling corner. They can also really see themselves as part of the book: There will be a station where they can have their pictures taken against one of its scenic backdrops.212-650-6900, citycollegecenterforthearts.orgSHLEMIEL CROOKS: A FAMILY PASSOVER MUSICAL at Merkin Concert Hall (March 25, 11 a.m.). The ancient Egyptian pharaoh who enslaved the Jews was indisputably a villain, but you wouldnt call him a shlemiel, the Yiddish term for an awkward bungler. In this show, however, his ghost takes up with a pair of shlemiel robbers in an attempt to ruin Passover, and its up to a boy and his dog to save the day. Presented by the Poppy Seed Players, this musical adapts two childrens books by Anna Olswanger, Chicken Bone Man and Shlemiel Crooks, which was based on the real experiences of Ms. Olswangers great-grandfather and the thieves who stole from his kosher liquor store.212-501-3330, kaufmanmusiccenter.org/mchSUN-EARTH DAY at the Cullman Hall of the Universe, American Museum of Natural History (March 24, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.). Earth Day is still a month away, but this museum festival will allow young science enthusiasts to get a head start on their appreciation for the planet. Underscoring how the power of the sun can be both beneficial and destructive, the event will explore climate change through activities that include playing a card game to build an Arctic marine food web and examining microscopic organisms from the ocean floor. Families can also imagine themselves inside the suns atmosphere with The Solarium, NASAs immersive digital art installation; participate in a virtual-reality satellite mission; and stay for a 4:30 meeting with NASA scientists, geared toward older children and teenagers, to discuss solar phenomena and see the 3-D film Aurora Borealis. 212-769-5200, amnh.org
Take the first step into Unseen Oceans, the new exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History, and you are bound to be tickled and enticed by the appearance of sand and surf beneath your feet.Its only video projected onto the floor, a simple enough technique, but I was sorely tempted to take off my shoes and wiggle my toes in the illusory foam. If I were to bring little ones to the exhibition, Id keep an eye on their footwear. Promise them that if they keep walking there will be real sand that they can touch with their hands.The exhibition is, of course, about hidden ocean wonders, but it features more than the usual suspects of blue whales and frighteningly enlarged microscopic plankton. The technology that allows scientists to uncover what the museum is showing its visitors is emphasized as well.It also highlights who discovers these wonders, and how and why they do it. Ocean research is presented not as the work of a distant scientific elite, but of people who, to take one example, grew up tinkering with an auto-mechanic father, and later figured out how to add sophisticated acoustic equipment to a small submarine called DOR-E.That researcher, Kelly J. Benoit-Bird, is featured in one of the Meet the Scientist nooks.One of the smaller wonders is presented in a vastly enlarged model along with its horrific and compelling life story. The creature is Phronima, a miniature carnivore ranging from half an inch to almost two inches long. When it is time to reproduce, a female Phronima bores into the body of a salp, a gelatinous translucent sea animal, and hollows it out into a barrel shape that it inhabits with its young. It drifts along, drawing food from seawater, overseeing its brood until they are ready to leave the nest, or barrel, or salp remnant. The female looks enough like the  monster in the Alien movies that people have speculated that this scrap of zooplankton inspired its design.For those who prefer beauty to horror, vast blue whales circle a wall screen in full-size video animations. And if you like weird and appealing, the Mola mola, or ocean sunfish, makes a similar appearance.Yet, as this show proves, there is always more to discover. Anyone who loves the water knows the thrill of breaking the surface to enter a different world. And snorkeling or scuba diving reveals all sorts of life that reacts to you with near indifference. If you dive at night, for instance, and shine a light on a reef, there are stunning displays of fluorescence.And if you go to great depths you find even more. Scientists like John Sparks, who curated the exhibition, are now finding that these phenomena are even more common than originally thought. One section focuses on fluorescence, found so far in more than 200 species of fish. Even sea turtles display it. Here, there are live animals showing off their colors  eels, scorpion fish, pipefish, green-patterned chain catsharks and red seahorses.Older children can sit in a model submersible, or play a kind of video game in which they drive the submarine around the ocean floor. And younger ones can actually reshape that floor in a sandbox lit to make some of the sand seem beneath the ocean surface. You can raise islands or destroy them.Some of the technical leaps that allow investigation of the oceans are high tech, like the submersibles, spheres with large acrylic windows in which you can dive thousands of feet deep. Advances in sonar and lasers allow scientists to better map the ocean floor, the details of which are largely unknown and unexplored.Parts of the ocean are so remote it is hard to imagine them. The Pacifics Mariana Trench, the deepest part of any ocean, is in the hadal zone (for Hades, the underworld). The deepest part of the trench, seven miles down, is called the Challenger Deep. Only three humans have visited it, fewer than have been to the Moon.The ocean that is glimpsed in this show is largely still to be explored, but, as the exhibit notes at the end, it is threatened in many ways by climate change and other environmental insults. The ocean is becoming more acidic, which threatens some plankton. Warmer seas and acidity are implicated in killing the algae that live with corals, creating bleached, dead reefs. Overfishing threatens many species. All the more reason to learn as much as possible about the oceans now.Although I am usually partial to biological wonders, my favorite part of this exhibit was the technology under development, such as the soft fingerlike grippers that researchers are developing so scientists in a submersible or remotely operating one can take hold of objects and living things without damaging them. This particular project is a joint effort of Harvard and the City University of New York. The group that does this work is called the Squishy Finger/Soft Robotics for Delicate Deep-sea Marine Biological Interactions team. The title itself is an unseen wonder.My favorite story of technological innovation in the exhibition involves attaching tags to sea creatures to track their movements. Attaching such tags always presents challenges, like how to get them to stick and not interfere with water flow as a whale swims.But what about tagging a jellyfish? Researchers tried quite a few different ways to stick a tag on amorphous, fragile jelly. The solution was an inexpensive glue that veterinarians use to help small cuts on animals heal. According to the show, the battery for such a tag is now the size of a piece of Trident gum.Of course, I have to say that I really liked sitting in the model submersible and playing the submersible video game too. Its a good thing my children are older now. It would be bad enough to have my kids be the ones to tell me to put my shoes on. How embarrassing if a museum official had to order me to give the kids a turn.

PARIS  The plush red velvet seats of Frances National Assembly are filled with lawmakers who owe just about everything to President Emmanuel Macron.Three-quarters of the 577 members are brand new, swept into power in the wake of his election last year. More than 60 percent are in his camp. Nearly one-third have never held public office, and 38 were under the age of 31 when they entered office.They are perfect foot soldiers for a president with an expansive notion of power and the revolutionary aim of wrenching Frances society and economy into the 21st century. With the assembly firmly in his control, Mr. Macron has had almost unchecked authority to carry out his agenda, even as critics fret that he is building a fawning cult of personality.On Thursday, tens of thousands of railway workers, teachers and air traffic controllers went on strike across France to protest salary freezes for civil servants and Mr. Macrons pledge to cut 120,000 public-sector jobs and introduce merit-based pay and use more private contractors.But the anger on the streets has found little expression in the legislature, where Mr. Macron has been given free rein to ram through major legislation.The symbiotic relationship between Mr. Macron and a legislature made in his image is a hopeful sign to his many supporters that the sclerotic French politics of the past few decades have given way to an era of renewal in a country that has long embraced the principle of a strong presidency. Elected on promises to enact more business-friendly labor laws, put the pension system on sounder footing, cut some taxes on the wealthy and address a host of other issues that his predecessors failed to solve, he has spent his first 10 months in office methodically working through his to-do list.But there is also concern among his critics that a young and inexperienced legislature is deferring to him too much, allowing him at times to govern almost by edict, often bypassing debate and dismissing criticism.Hes a bad example for democracy, but a good example for reform, said Patrick Vignal, a survivor from the previous assembly and now a supporter of Mr. Macron in Parliament. He spoke with a grin, but some of his colleagues express similar sentiments with dead seriousness.In fact, Mr. Macron has come to embody a paradox of French politics. Abroad Mr. Macron has been seen as vital European defender of liberal democratic values after France sidestepped the Wests turn to populism by rejecting the far-right National Front in elections last year.But in place of populism, France got a sort of humanist but all-powerful leader who muses aloud about the solitary exercise of power, faces little internal dissent, and has effectively neutered the opposition.Less than a year into his presidency, Mr. Macrons push to upend France has spawned intense and sometimes overheated reactions. He is routinely if perhaps hyperbolically compared to either Napoleon Bonaparte or Louis XIV in the French press.But there is no appetite to challenge or slow Mr. Macron down in the National Assembly, which is wholly dominated by his newly branded political party, La Rpublique en Marche, or the Republic on the Move.The assembly has become a showcase of Mr. Macrons forceful powers of persuasion and the ways he wants to reshape and update all of France.Theres been a complete cultural shock, said Jean-Paul Delevoye, a senior official in Mr. Macrons government who helped pick his candidates for Parliament.Weve completely overturned the sociology of the assembly, he added.Diet Coke replaced wine as the most popular item at the assemblys bar. Wine sales had plummeted, stunning the barmen, though they are creeping back up under the influence of long days. Mr. Macrons acolytes sit through them, unlike their predecessors.Before the rule for a deputy was, arrive Tuesday morning and go home Wednesday evening. Now, many say, Mr. Macrons deputies come for the whole week.So assiduous are they that now, its hard to find a spot at the restaurant, thats what strikes me, said Brigitte Bourguignon, another ex-Socialist who joined Mr. Macron.Among the youthful deputies, common positions are worked out in advance on applications like Telegram, befuddling the old-timers. There is little patience for them in any case.But the ambition is also infused with arrogance, critics say, a charge frequently leveled at Mr. Macron himself.They give the impression that the world begins with them, grumbled Boris Vallaud, a rare remaining Socialist. Before, there were only imbeciles. And all the reforms they are accomplishing are necessarily the best.Theyre only there by the grace of Emmanuel Macron, Mr. Vallaud added. Its a system of personal allegiance.For those rare lawmakers who managed to survive the clear-cutting of Frances opposition and traditional political parties from the assembly, the going has not been easy.Theres an arrogance, a lack of humility, Mr. Vignal said, without rancor.We were the saved ones,  he added. So it was like, Shut up, at least you were saved. Some of that disdain is evident in the attitudes of the new deputies.Were not here for the show of it, like some of these career deputies, said Benoit Potterie, a member of Mr. Macrons movement and a political novice who owns a string of optical shops in the north. Were here to work, to write laws.Like him, a fifth of Mr. Macrons new deputies are what the French term executives from either the public or private sectors. Many own small businesses.In the carpeted hallways of the National Assembly, legislative aides and the few remaining opposition deputies mumble about the sheeping-down of Parliament  a phrase that recurs frequently.There is little doubt that Mr. Macron is getting what he wants out of his Parliament, sometimes by cutting it out of the picture altogether.Parliament was barely to be seen last year when Mr. Macron forced through changes to Frances rigid labor code to allow companies more flexibility in negotiating directly with workers, and to limit payouts after layoffs.Instead, the president proceeded by special decree, using a rarely used procedure that allowed the National Assembly merely to vote thumbs up or down on the labor reforms  it voted up  but without the power to change or even discuss them.Then, Mr. Macron rammed through the lifting of a tax on wealth, insisting that it was necessary to free capital for investment. Many economists agreed. But apart from a few opposition whimpers there was hardly any debate.In coming weeks he proposes to take on the railway workers  the bte noir of many a French government  again by special decree. Mr. Macron wants to end the hiring-for-life, early retirement and enhanced medical insurance that have contributed to a whopping deficit. But he doesnt necessarily want Parliament debating it.The steamroller of the reform drive has left France caught somewhere between unease at the plenitude of Mr. Macrons powers and astonishment at the speed with which he is moving.Debate is extremely limited, said Jean-Michel Clment, who broke with the Socialists and joined Mr. Macron. Its difficult to debate when youve got 300 people.What discussion there is sometimes resembles back-patting rather than debate, an echo chamber of praise.When Mr. Macrons transport minister, lisabeth Borne recently defended her government in Parliament, Mr. Macrons deputies applauded in unison.Before that, it was pure flattery from the ranks. You showed unequaled strength, one of Mr. Macrons deputies said, lavishing praise on the presidents handpicked prime minister, Edouard Philippe.Others disagreed that the climate had turned sheepish, to a point.Sure, we invite our people to debate the issues, said Mr. Delevoye, the senior Macron government official. But once something is decided, thats it. The decision has got to be respected.That appears to suit Mr. Macron. He has made it clear that he doesnt want much discussion and that power is best exercised alone.Since I was elected president, Ive taken the measure of the offices responsibility, its weight, Mr. Macron told a group of surprised journalists last month, suddenly ruminating aloud in his trademark philosophical style.Of the part of solitude that it implies, and of the end of innocence that it announces, Mr. Macron added loftily.Power is something ascetic, Mr. Macron continued. I am the fruit of a kind of brutality in history, a kind of forcing-in, because France was unhappy and uneasy.It was an unusually introspective portrait of the exercise of power, and there was only one person in it: Mr. Macron.The presidents many allies in Parliament were invisible, and for good reason. Some of Mr. Macrons recent initiatives have made it ever more clear that he is not thinking about them very much.He is aiming to limit the rights of members to propose amendments, and he wants to cut back on the number of deputies altogether, by about one-third.For his dedicated supporters in Parliament, subordination is not an issue. Asked whether he had been in disagreement with the government, Mr. Potterie replied: Ah, no. No. At the margins maybe. But for the moment, no.In the National Assembly, its true that we dont challenge the government, he added. Its because we were elected to carry out their program.That sense of purpose runs deep.Its not true that we are simply puppets, insisted Ms. Bourguignon, the former Socialist. Weve got a government that reforms, and weve got to follow the government.
