
SHANGHAI   China met its 2020 carbon intensity target three years ahead of schedule last year, the official Xinhua news agency reported on Tuesday, citing the country\'s top climate official Xie Zhenhua.China, the world\'s biggest energy consumer, cut its 2005 carbon intensity level, or the amount of climate-warming carbon dioxide it produces per unit of economic growth, by 46 percent in 2017, Xie told a forum in Shanghai on Tuesday.Carbon intensity fell 5.1 percent in 2017 compared to the previous year, Xinhua said, suggesting that China\'s war on pollution also helped reduce greenhouse gas emissions.China originally promised to cut its 2005 carbon intensity by 40 percent to 45 percent. The pledge, first made in 2009, was included in the country\'s commitments to the international community ahead of negotiations for a new global climate pact in Paris in 2015.However, China struggled to honour another promise to establish a nationwide emissions cap and trade system by 2017, with the scheme delayed by technical problems, including the reliability of emissions data. The country eventually settled for a scaled-back scheme involving only the power sector, which was launched in December last year.In his speech, Xie said the national market, though only at an embryonic stage, already covers about 1,700 power firms with total carbon dioxide emissions in excess of 3 billion tonnes, making it the world\'s biggest. He said China would continue to work to expand coverage to other industries.But the issue has been complicated by the decision, made at this year\'s full session of parliament, to transfer responsibility for climate change and carbon emissions to an expanded Ministry of Ecology and Environment. It was previously under the remit of the state planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC).Xie was formerly vice-chairman of the NDRC and is now a special envoy with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs."It is a daunting task to launch China\'s national carbon trading market," said Peter Corne, managing partner at the legal firm Dorsey & Whitney in Shanghai, who follows China\'s environmental policies."It is questionable whether in the short term (the new ministry) can be elevated in status and power to the extent that it will be able quickly to assume the influential role that the NDRC occupied in the area of climate change," he added.(Reporting by David Stanway; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)
Numerous people have been fired or forced out of jobs in the wake of the widening scandal involving once-renowned gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar, who has been ordered to serve decades in prison for molesting some of the sport\'s top athletes and others as well as child pornography crimes.Nassar worked for both Michigan State and USA Gymnastics, the sport\'s national governing body. The school and organization are being sued by dozens of women.The latest announcement came Tuesday, when the former dean of MSU\'s College of Osteopathic Medicine was charged with several crimes, including fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct, neglect of duty and misconduct of a public official. He\'s accused of groping female students himself and failing to keep Nassar in line. The medical school official, William Strampel, is the first person charged since an investigation was launched in January into how Michigan State handled complaints against Nassar.As outside investigations continue, more people could lose jobs at the university and elsewhere. Here\'s a look at some of the individuals or organizations that have been ousted, opted to quit, taken leaves or had ties cut:___MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Lou Anna Simon: The president and school alumna resigned hours after Nassar\'s Jan. 24 sentencing amid growing pressure from students, lawmakers and some members of the university\'s governing board. She acknowledged being "the focus of this anger" but has denied any cover-up by the university. The university\'s governing board hired former Michigan Gov. John Engler as its interim president. Mark Hollis: The athletic director, also an MSU alumnus, called his departure announced Jan. 26 a retirement, but he, too, had faced pressure to leave. He had been on the job for 10 years. He said he made the choice because of "the scope of everything," adding that he hopes it helps the "healing process." Kathie Klages: The former gymnastics coach resigned last year after she was suspended for defending Nassar over the years. Klages is accused of downplaying complaints made by two teens in 1997. Brooke Lemmen: The former school doctor resigned last year after learning the university was considering firing her because she didn\'t disclose that USA Gymnastics was investigating Nassar. William Strampel: The former dean of MSU\'s College of Osteopathic Medicine was charged Tuesday amid allegations that he failed to keep Nassar in line, groped female students and stored nude student selfies on his campus computer. Strampel, who has been named in lawsuits, announced in December that he was taking a leave of absence for medical reasons. The school announced last month that it planned to fire Strampel and suspended Suresh Mukherji, the chairman of the college\'s Department of Radiology and chief medical officer of the MSU HealthTeam. Bob Noto: The university in February announced the departure of its longtime vice president for legal affairs. The school called it a retirement, which was to be effective March 5. He had been MSU\'s general counsel since 1995. Trustee Brian Mosallam had sought Noto\'s resignation.___USA GYMNASTICS Valeri Liukin: The coordinator of the women\'s national team for USA Gymnastics announced in early February that he stepped down, less than 18 months after taking over for Martha Karolyi in September 2016. Liukin said in a statement that while he wanted to help turn the program around, "the present climate causes me, and more importantly my family, far too much stress, difficulty and uncertainty." USA Gymnastics confirmed Jan. 26 that its entire board of directors would resign as requested by the U.S. Olympic Committee. The USOC had threatened to decertify the gymnastics organization that picks U.S. national teams and is the umbrella organization for hundreds of clubs across the country. Three top board members stepped down in January, but the USOC said a wholesale change was needed. Steve Penny: The former president and CEO resigned under pressure in March 2017 and was replaced by Kerry Perry, who took over in December.___TWISTARS GYMNASTICS CLUB John Geddert: The owner of the Michigan club was suspended in January by USA Gymnastics and announced his retirement. He was the U.S. women\'s coach at the 2012 Olympics. Nassar was sentenced last month to a third prison term of 40 to 125 years for molesting young athletes at the elite training center. Geddert has said he had "zero knowledge" of Nassar\'s crimes.___KAROLYI RANCH USA Gymnastics said in January that the ranch outside Huntsville, Texas, would no longer serve as the national training center where a number of gymnasts said Nassar abused them.___U.S. OLYMPIC COMMITTEE Scott Blackmun: The CEO resigned last month, citing difficulties with prostate cancer and the federation\'s need to urgently move forward to deal with the sex abuse scandal. He was diagnosed with cancer earlier this winter. Blackmun leaves amid calls for his departure, including from two U.S. senators who said neither he nor the USOC at large reacted properly to sex abuse cases involving Nassar. The USOC is conducting an independent review of when Blackmun and others learned the details about abuse cases at USA Gymnastics and whether they responded appropriately.
When a former Microsoft executive decided to sell his collection of eight golf properties in Washington State, a small Chinese company started quietly negotiating for them.The company, West Coast Golf, said it was working on behalf of wealthy Chinese investors, including a Hong Kong company. Then the talks stalled.A year later, a big Chinese conglomerate, HNA Group, suddenly swooped in and agreed to pay $137 million to buy the properties from the former tech executives company, Oki Golf.The two Chinese companies had an important connection: The head of West Coast Golf, Wang Wei, is the younger brother of HNAs longtime co-chairman, Wang Jian.The activities of Wang Wei have been central to HNAs transformation from a small regional airline to a vast global conglomerate, one with nearly $100 billion in revenue and stakes in Deutsche Bank, Hilton Hotels and Swissport.For nearly 25 years, Mr. Wang has been a little-known force at HNA, working behind the scenes to orchestrate investments, build supply chains and transfer assets, according to a review of annual reports, court filings and corporate documents by The New York Times. In one of the most pivotal moves, Mr. Wang helped set the stage for a takeover of HNA by company insiders and their families  a change that transferred control of a state-backed company into private hands.In recent years, HNA emerged seemingly out of nowhere to become one of the most prolific dealmakers in the world, spending billions of dollars on acquisitions in real estate, finance and logistics. Investors and regulators in the United States, in Europe and elsewhere have been trying to understand the ambitions, operations and finances of the global behemoth  and the players who have helped shape the company, including Wang Wei.Those questions have taken on more urgency as Chinese authorities press the countrys most aggressive acquisitors to pare back their debt. In a dramatic move, the Chinese government last month seized control of the Anbang Insurance Group, which owns the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City and other multibillion-dollar properties around the world.In the current climate, HNA, which has amassed about $90 billion in debt, is reversing course and selling off assets. Other pending deals by the company remain in limbo.Understanding HNA is difficult. The conglomerate controls a vast network of public and private companies, subsidiaries and affiliates spread across the world. Scores of them have business ties to the friends and family members of the companys senior executives.A review by The Times found that few, if any, of those personal ties were disclosed to stock and bonds investors of the companys affiliates. Typically, investors want to understand such dealings, which could create conflicts of interest.Whether Wang Wei was ever formally employed by HNA or its predecessor, Hainan Airlines, is unclear. A review of hundreds of company filings going back to the mid-1990s turned up only a handful of mentions of him by name, and none indicate that he is the younger brother of a top HNA executive. In some cases  like the early negotiations for the Oki Golf deal  the private investment firms of Wang Wei, or those of other relatives, operated behind the scenes.These transactions are carefully reviewed to ensure that they were in all respects beneficial to HNA, Thomas A. Clare, a lawyer for HNA, said in an email. Working with a business partner who is known to the company and its leadership allowed the parties to work collaboratively from a position of trust and cooperation and, in so doing, achieved even greater results.Calls to Mr. Wangs homes and offices were not returned.For years, Mr. Wang was largely unknown as a businessman in China. He granted few media interviews and rarely posed for photographs. Even on Hainan Island, where he worked for more than a decade, he was mainly known for running a company that was trying to produce Cuban-style cigars.Then roughly a decade ago, Mr. Wang appeared as a major investor in one of Chinas biggest property companies, Dalian Wanda. Records show that in July 2007, he bought a sizable stake in the family holding company of Wandas chairman on the same day that a company controlled by the son of a member of the Communist Partys ruling Politburo took a stake in one of its subsidiaries. Another one of Wang Weis investment firms bought a big stake in the Three Gorges Bank, in the city of Chongqing, in about 2008.The roots of his wealth, though, are tied to HNA and Hainan Airlines.After his brother Wang Jian helped found the state-backed Hainan Airlines in the early 1990s, the younger Mr. Wang became one of the companys frequent business partners. He set up joint ventures and other businesses to provide services to the airline, including advertising and leasing. He also helped the carrier move into golf, resorts and property development.Between 1994 and 2010, Mr. Wang set up more than 30 companies that did business with HNA and its affiliates, according to corporate filings. One company, a software services firm called eKing, was acquired by HNA, which later sold a piece to private investors for $500 million.In some deals, Mr. Wang started out managing a project on behalf of HNA before quietly taking ownership through another entity.It happened with West Coast Golf.In October 1996, Hainan Airlines invited some of the worlds leading golf course designers, including a team working for the golf legend Jack Nicklaus, to help build an 18-hole golf course on a 350-acre plot of oceanfront property in Haikou, the capital of Hainan. When construction began, the winning design team was introduced to Wang Wei.He would attend all the meetings, said OBrien McGarey, the president of the Dye Designs Group of Denver, which won the design competition. I never really understood what his role was, but I knew he was Wang Jians younger brother. And it was Hainan Airlines that paid me.Later, records show, investment companies affiliated with Mr. Wang acquired majority ownership of West Coast Golf, which grew from a single golf course into a large property development with luxury villas.It played out similarly when HNA wanted to build a more upscale development, a five-star hotel and resort surrounded by villas, on Hainan Island.The architectural design team was hired by Hainan Airlines. But Wang Wei was involved in the planning. Mr. Wang eventually gained control of the development through one of his businesses, the Sunny Bay Development Company, according to corporate filings.Today, the development site is home to one of the islands most expensive tourist destinations  the Park Hyatt Sanya Sunny Bay Resort and a collection of luxury villas that each sell for more than $7 million. Caleb Wang, chief executive of the HTW Tourism Group, said that in 2005 his company bought a majority stake in the development site from Wang Wei.He is still a small shareholder, said the chief executive of HTW, who is not related to Mr. Wang. Ive only met him once. He was here for the opening of the Park Hyatt.Wang Wei also has ties to one of HNAs biggest shareholders.Beginning around 2000, a company managed by Mr. Wang built a stake in one of the airlines largest investors, a company called Hainan Qixing, with other HNA insiders that included his brother. The participation of HNA insiders does not appear to have been disclosed in public filings. Regulators in China and elsewhere often require disclosure of so-called related party deals involving senior executives or members of their families.Through Qixing, Mr. Wang and company insiders restructured the state-backed airline into a privately held parent company called the HNA Group. A large portion of HNAs shares were then shifted offshore, to Pan American Aviation, a company registered in the Cayman Islands, according to a review of corporate filings in China and Hong Kong.In recent months, United States regulators conducting a review of HNA acquisition have pressed the conglomerate to explain its corporate ownership structure, according to court papers filed in an American lawsuit.As HNA grew into a global powerhouse, Wang Wei went global, too.When Hainan Airlines was expanding, it needed to procure goods like jet fuel, aircrafts and spare parts from foreign companies, including Boeing, General Electric and Mitsubishi of Japan. Hainan Airlines formed a series of companies inside and outside China to help source these goods and ship them into the country, for a fee.One of the companies set up to work with the airline was the Hainan HNA Import & Export Company, a firm partly controlled by Wang Wei, his brother Wang Jian and a group of their longtime business associates, according to corporate records. The import company, in other words, gave the Wang brothers an interest in the companys purchase of overseas goods, giving them a stake in a business that apparently was not disclosed to investors in Hainan Airlines, a listed company.Mr. Wangs ties to HNA and its top executives run deep. In 2007, he bought what is now a $5 million residence near Seattle from a company controlled by HNAs co-chairman, Chen Feng. Then, Mr. Wangs daughter registered two limited liability companies in the city.One of those companies helped West Coast Golf initiate talks to acquire the Oki Golf properties.In the summer of 2014, one of Mr. Wangs associates asked for help locating golf facilities in the United States, according to Mr. McGarey, the Denver-based golf course designer who had begun working with Wang Wei in the mid-1990s.Mr. McGarey said that he had negotiated an agreement, which included a success fee, and then signed a contract with Mr. Wangs West Coast Golf. The document, he said, was reviewed by HNA lawyers on behalf of West Coast Golf. Soon after, he was put in touch with Mr. Wangs son-in-law in Seattle, Mike Ji. They began scouting golf courses in Washington State.When they settled on Oki Golf as a prospect, Mr. McGarey brought in two advisers to help with the assessment of Okis courses: Dan Conway and Don Lewison.Together, they approached Scott Oki, the former Microsoft executive who owned Oki Golf.I got a hold of Scott Oki. He lives across the street from me, Mr. Lewison, a Seattle real estate broker, recalled. We met in my house, over coffee and doughnuts. I told him we had a friend who had Chinese clients, and he told me he might want to sell to them.Negotiations got underway quickly  but by the end of 2015, the American advisers said the talks appeared to have gone nowhere.Then in October 2016, Oki Golf announced that it had agreed to sell a collection of courses to the HNA Group for $137 million in cash. Mr. Oki and HNA declined to comment on the deal.Mr. McGarey said he and the two advisers were cut out of the deal  and the fees promised in the contract with West Coast Golf.His son-in-law Mike Ji called me after the deal was announced, and said, HNA was the buyer, and it had nothing to do with Wang Wei. Mr. McGarey recalled. I was furious. This deal definitely goes back to Wang Wei.
Good Tuesday. Heres what were watching: So you want to be Deutsche Banks next C.E.O... Investors are selling tech again. Will Wall Streets top regulator keep going after bad bankers? More potential limits on gun sales Facebooks growing political troubles Ubers self-driving travailsGet this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Imagine you are applying to be the C.E.O. of Deutsche Bank now that its reportedly seeking a successor to John Cryan, the banks current chief.You survey the banks numbers to get a sense of the opportunities and challenges youd face.Staring you in the face is the stock price, down nearly 30 percent this year. Ugly, but it could be a good entry point. It gives you time to try out some tough measures aimed at improving Deutsche Banks performance. Even if those moves produce near-term losses, the stock may not dive, given how far its already fallen.Then you look at the strength of Deutsche Banks capital, as expressed by a regulatory measure called the common equity tier 1 capital ratio. Thats at 14 percent, a solid-looking level, achieved in part by an 8 billion equity raise last year. In theory, you have something to spend on your chosen plans.But then you realize that Deutsche Banks share price is now back at the level at which the bank sold those shares. Shareholders must be livid. Not only that, Deutsche Banks stock market value is less than 40 percent of its net worth as stated on its balance sheet (its stock price is 11.30 and its book value per share is 30.16.) When a company trades at a hefty discount to its net worth, it either needs to raise a lot of new capital, which doesnt seem to be the case at Deutsche Bank, or investors have serious doubts about the companys business model.So, Ill rejig the banks business model, you say to yourself, thats what new C.E.O.s do!You look for ways and stumble upon an unavoidable obstacle. Deutsche Bank is heavily dependent on Wall Street revenue, which can be far more unpredictable than revenue from other businesses. Last year, revenue from Deutsche Banks corporate and investment bank, which has struggled to keep up with its peers, accounted for 54 percent of the banks overall revenue. Compare that with JPMorgan Chase, whose investment bank accounted for a third of its revenue last year. And you are stuck with the Wall Street operations; no one wants to buy an investment bank with 1.2 trillion in assets.Maybe you can cut costs, another go-to tactic of an incoming C.E.O. Indeed, Deutsche Banks investment bank employees seem better paid than their counterparts at other firms. Going by a back of the envelope calculation, the units compensation expense is equivalent to 44 percent of its revenue (excluding the interest the investment bank earns on its assets.) Thats higher than the 39 percent ratio for JPMorgans investment bank last year, and 41 percent for Goldman Sachs. Maybe you could slash the pay of bankers and traders.Sorry, Mr. Cryan tried that. Peter EavisThe roller coaster ride in tech continues.The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite tumbled nearly 3 percent, while the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 fell 1.4 percent and 1.7 percent.Tech companies in the S.&P. 500 tech sector slid 3.4 percent, the steepest decline among the indexs 11 main sectors.Chip makers were among the hardest hit on the day. Shares of Nvidia dropped 7.8 percent after it said it was halting tests on self-driving cars.Nvidias slide weighed on the shares of rival chip makers. Micron Technologies fell 5.7 percent, and AMD dropped 4.2 percent.But semiconductor companies were hardly the only ones getting pummeled. The famed FANG stocks, among the biggest gainers over the past year, tumbled Tuesday. Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet all finished down more than 4.5 percent.Tesla tumbled 8.2 percent on news that the National Transportation Safety Board is conducting its second investigation this year into a Tesla car crash. The stock is off nearly 20 percent since March 12 on increasing concerns that the electric-car maker will fall short of its production goals for the Model 3.Twitter dropped 12 percent after Andrew Lefts Citron Research said it was shorting the social media company.Tuesdays fall continued the recent volatility in American stocks, and specifically, the shares of tech companies. Enthusiasm about the technology sector had long propelled stock markets to new heights. But the specter of intensifying regulation of the industry has taken the sheen off. Last week tech stocks dragged the broader markets to their worst week in more than two years. The selling took a break on Monday as the S.&P. 500s tech sector rose 4 percent pushing the index to its best day in almost three years.A vigorous debate is taking place over who should become the next head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, a powerful regulator on Wall Streets front lines.Contenders for the post should address one question: What will you do to clean up the culture at banks?William C. Dudley, the outgoing president of the New York Fed, had made improving the culture at the firms he oversaw a key initiative of his tenure of at the institution.When Mr. Dudley took the helm in 2009, the financial crisis had left the New York Feds reputation as a regulator damaged. The institution had not done enough to address the severe weaknesses at the banks it oversaw, like Citigroup. Early on, Mr. Dudley commissioned a review of the New York Feds bank supervision department and then overhauled it. But in 2012, JPMorgan Chase, also overseen by the New York Fed, suffered huge trading losses in what was known as the London Whale scandal. The New York Fed was faulted.Following the embarrassing London Whale imbroglio, Mr. Dudley used his bully pulpit to focus on bankers ethics. Banks were stronger financially, but recent scandals showed that the culture of their firms still needed to improve, he observed. And if a cleanup didnt occur, it may be a sign that they needed to be reduced in size, Mr. Dudley said in a 2014 speech that rattled Wall Street.The next big banking scandal  Wells Fargos widespread mistreatment of customers, which came to light in 2016  strongly supported Mr. Dudleys arguments. Wells Fargo was considered one of the most stable too big to fail banks, with its focus on plain vanilla lending, but in fact, its retail sales culture had degraded. The Fed earlier this year slapped relatively harsh sanctions on the bank, including a limit on its size.The example of Wells Fargo is pertinent for John C. Williams, a top candidate to replace Mr. Dudley. Mr. Williams is head of the San Francisco Fed, which oversees Wells Fargo.And there is still work to do to fulfill Mr. Dudleys initiative. He proposed a database of banker misconduct, similar to the one for brokers, that would track a bankers record on ethics and compliance. Banks could consult it before hiring. But this idea has not taken off. In a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Monday, Mr. Dudley explained why: Understandably, firms are concerned about legal risk if they share information about banker misconduct, but there may be ways to address these concerns through legislation.Mr. Dudley had also pressed banks boards of directors to focus on ethical culture. On Monday, he said the boards had set up separate committees to focus on culture and conduct. Weve made part of the journey but I think more could be done, Mr. Dudley said. Whether it will, depends on who steps into his shoes. Peter EavisThe yield curve is near its flattest level since the financial crisis. The difference between the yields on the two-year and 10-year Treasury notes is at 0.52 percentage points, not far off its post-crisis low of 0.50 percentage points hit in January.That has some asking if the nine-year-old economic recovery is at risk.Since the end of World War II, no barometer has done a better job of predicting a recession than the yield curve. A flattening yield curve tends to indicate slowing economic growth in the near future. But what is more worrisome is if the yield curve goes beyond flattening and into outright inversion.The chances of a recession when the yield curve is flattening is just 20 percent, according to the calculations of Jim Paulsen, the chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group. That jumps to 72 percent when the curve inverts.There is another reason not to be too concerned about a flattening yield curve, and it has to do with the actions of central banks around the world. The unprecedented stimulus from the Fed, Bank of Japan and E.C.B. have brought down long-term rates. That means the yield curve might not be the predictor it once was.A week after a self-driving Uber vehicle hit and killed a woman in Arizona, the fallout continues to spread.Nvidia on Tuesday said it had suspended self-driving tests in New Jersey, Santa Clara, Japan and Germany. A Nvidia spokesperson said in a statement, using A.V. as an abbreviation for automated vehicles :Nvidias artificial intelligence platform is the autonomous industrys leader. The chip maker has partnered with auto makers such as Volkswagen, Tesla and Audi. Around 320 firms - from software developers, automakers and their suppliers, sensor and mapping companies - use Nvidias platform, Reuters reports.Nvidia is just the latest company to halt tests on self-driving cars in the wake of the accident in Arizona. Toyota, nuTonomy and Uber have all already done so.Roger Lanctot, an automotive technology analyst with Strategy Analytics, wrote:Citigroup became the biggest Wall Street firm thus far to take actions to limit gun sales. Others, like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Visa and Mastercard, are studying options. (Bank of America and JPMorgan are two of the bankruptcy lenders to Remington Outdoor, along with Wells Fargo, which is the N.R.A.s bank of choice.)In his latest column, Andrew suggests these new tactics: Credit-card issuers and banks could give gun sellers who have announced restrictions on sales, like Walmart and Dicks Sporting Goods, a special merchant category code. That could help financial firms decide with whom they want to do business. Payment processors could geofence gun shows and enforce restrictions on transactions coming from those GPS coordinates.Heres what Citis C.E.O., Mike Corbat, told Andrew about his firms actions:Where to begin? The company faces inquiries from the Federal Trade Commission, the Senate Judiciary Committee, several state attorneys general and the watchdog group Common Cause. And Britains Parliament asked Mark Zuckerberg to testify (hes sending a deputy).Facebooks stock overall is headed for its worst monthly performance in nearly five years. Yet the companys shares recovered from another beating, closing up slightly yesterday. And just two analysts have sell ratings on the stock, compared to 44 who have buy ratings.In Cambridge Analytica news: Did a Brexit campaign group violate election laws by not declaring some of its spending with AggregateIQ, a digital marketer with ties to Cambridge Analytica?Critics corner: Nir Kaissar of Gadfly thinks that the big question is how many users value privacy more than having a Facebook account. Charlie Warzel of BuzzFeed argues the Cambridge Analytica scandal could lead to a full-scale personal and public reckoning that looks at the way weve used the internet for the last decade.Bankers and deal lawyers may want to send some of their bonus to Amazon this year. M.&A. activity is running at record levels and concerns about the e-commerce giant have played a role in driving a number of the largest deals.The latest? GlaxoSmithKlines decision to buy out Novartiss stake in their consumer health joint venture, which includes Sensodyne toothpaste, for $13 billion.Amazon may not have been the main reason, but its impact on the pricing of consumer health products likely played a role.Historically, such products have lower margins than prescription drugs, but customers that keep coming back. Sales, though, are slowing, up just 3 percent over the past two years, half the rate of the previous two, according to Morgan Stanley. Price competition from online retailers like Amazon has some worried it could decelerate further.That partly helps explain why Novartis was willing to exit the business.So why was Glaxo willing to pay up for the business?1) Starting this month Novartis had the right to require Glaxo purchase its stake in the joint venture. Doing the deal now removes uncertainty.2) The deal will allow its new chief executive to get on with fixing GSKs pharmaceutical division, which suffers from a relatively lackluster pipeline of new drugs, writes Neil Unmack of Breakingviews. Shares of Glaxo have gained 6.3 percent.The S.&P. 500 rose 2.7 percent yesterday, its best day in nearly three years (as President Trump would be happy to tell you). Maybe its because, as Peter Eavis writes, the presidents threats of a trade war with China might be merely negotiating tactics.More from Peter: According to this view, the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about shifting trade terms. If China doesnt show real signs that it will do more to open its markets, Mr. Trump could up the ante  roiling the markets again. But the White Houses more conciliatory tone yesterday after last weeks sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full trade war.But remember that Beijing is firmly committed to its industrial policy, while the U.S. is equally adamant about letting American companies operate more freely in China. (Even if G.M. and Ford, who have joint ventures with Chinese companies, wouldnt benefit from a lower tariff on U.S. car imports.) And Stephen Roach of Yale thinks that the U.S.-China trade deficit will keep widening.Elsewhere in trade: The U.S. is near a deal with South Korea, after winning concessions on steel exports and imports of U.S. cars. Betting on trade wars is risky. Hedge funds are taking refuge in southern European stocks. And the Western worlds economic institutions are being attacked from within. White House lawyers are examining whether more than $500 million of loans to Kushner Companies may have violated criminal laws or federal ethics regulations. (WSJ) Democrats and progressive groups arent happy with the possibility of John C. Williams taking over the New York Fed. (NYT) Stormy Danielss interview with 60 Minutes drew 22 million viewers, the programs highest ratings in almost a decade. Shes suing President Trumps personal attorney, Michael Cohen, for defamation. The White Houses criterion for judicial nominees: favor shrinking the federal government. (NYT)The states governor, Doug Ducey, ordered Uber to halt self-driving car tests there after the death of a pedestrian in Tempe.Ubers repeated problems  even after a change in leadership  have led the journalist Steven Hill to argue that limits should be placed on the company, including caps on the number of vehicles and rules against subsidizing rides.Elsewhere in tech Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Masa Son of SoftBank met in New York. (@spagov) The F.C.C. is another regulator wary of Huawei. (NYT) Google, Tesla and Qualcomm are banding together to challenge SoftBanks ARM Holdings. (The Information) Bitcoin fell below $8,000 after Twitter banned some cryptocurrency ads. (CNBC) A.I. is now coming for Hollywood special-effects producers. (NYT) IBM faces accusations of age discrimination. (ProPublica)Third Point: Dan Loebs hedge fund has built a position in United Technologies, according to an antitrust filing, following Pershing Square Capital Management. Theyre both betting that the industrial conglomerate will split up.Elliott: The firm has reportedly taken a stake in Travelport Worldwide and plans to push the company to consider selling itself.D.E. Shaw: The hedge fund scored another win yesterday when Lowes said that its chairman and C.E.O., Robert Niblock, would retire. D.E. Shaw has been pressuring the retailer to expand sales more quickly and will have a say in choosing the new C.E.O. .Barington Capital: To settle a proxy fight, the embattled cosmetics company Avon gave the activist fund a seat on its board. The fund has been pushing for a sale. Meet HNAs quiet power broker: Wang Wei, younger brother of the Chinese conglomerates chairman. (NYT) Akzo Nobel has reached a deal to sell its specialty chemicals unit to the Carlyle Group and GIC of Singapore for 10.1 billion, including debt, or $12.6 billion. (FT) Brookfield Property Partners agreed to buy the 66 percent of GGP that it doesnt already own for about $9.25 billion. (WSJ) Spotify is paying I.P.O.-level fees for its non-I.P.O. SmartSheet, a cloud-based business software company, reportedly plans to go public. Both Yeti, the maker of upscale coolers, and Gategroup, the Swiss airline catering business owned by HNA, have pulled their offerings. Lightspeed Venture Partners is raising $1.8 billion for new funds. Lerer Hippeau is taking over most of the portfolio companies of the embattled Binary Capital. How Alibaba and Tencent became Asias biggest deal makers. (FT) Why private equity hasnt helped smaller grocery chains struggling against Walmart and Amazon. (NYT) Deutsche Bank is reportedly seeking to replace its C.E.O., John Cryan, according to The Times of London and Financial News. Harry Keogh, the Coutts & Company banker accused of sexual harassment, has resigned. (WSJ) JPMorgan Chase has named James Roddy as the co-head of its global diversified industrials investment banking team. (Reuters) Shell Oil plans to name Gretchen Watkins, the former C.E.O. of Maersk Oil, as president and U.S. country chair. (Houston Business Journal) Nickelodeon has cut ties with Dan Schneider, the producer of iCarly and Kenan and Kel. (WSJ) Goldman Sachs began an investigation after a former employee wrote to Lloyd Blankfein saying that a group of colleagues attempted to rape her in 1994. (Financial News) Goldman is deploying investment banking partners to hubs like Atlanta, Dallas, Seattle and Toronto. (Business Insider) The average Wall Street bankers bonus last year was the highest since before the financial crisis. (WSJ) How a tiny Latvian bank became a haven for the worlds dirty money. (WSJ) Cisco Systems promised to donate $50 million over five years to fight homelessness in Santa Clara County, Calif. (WaPo) Royal Dutch Shell has set out what it thinks it would take for the world to control climate change  including using far less oil by 2070. (WaPo) G.M. said its South Korean unit would file for bankruptcy if a labor union rejected a restructuring plan. (Bloomberg) Imagine if Gordon Gekko bought news empires. Heath Freeman is like that, only worse, writes Joe Nocera. (BloombergView)Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.
