LONDON   Britain has rejected plans for a new open cast coal mine in northeastern England, as it could hamper efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and curb climate change, the minister for local government said on Friday.Supporters of the project had said it could bring much needed jobs to the region, while environmental campaigners said it would go against Britain\'s commitment to reduce greenhouse gases.Britain plans to phase-out coal use at its power stations by 2025 as a part of its efforts to meet its climate targets, and is part of an international alliance pushing other countries to do the same.Northumberland County Council agreed last year that the mine\'s developer The Banks Group could extract 3 million tonnes of coal by cutting an open cast, or surface mine, near Druridge Bay, Highthorn.But local government minister Sajid Javid rejected the application on Friday following a public inquiry, government documents show."The scheme would have an adverse effect on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change of very substantial significance, which he gives very considerable weight in the planning balance," the government report, rejecting the application said.Gavin Styles, managing director at the mine\'s developer Banks Mining, said Britain was still dependent on coal for a number of purposes and the decision had been taken for "purely political reasons.""The importance of securing investment in North East England, creating dozens of high quality local jobs, and opening up opportunities for regional suppliers to win substantial contracts could not be any clearer," he said in an emailed statement.The company said the project could employ 100 people and generate almost 50 million pounds ($70.43 million) in related contracts and other benefits to the community.Styles said the company would carefully review the decision before deciding on the most appropriate next steps to take.Environmentalists had criticised the plans, saying it would destroy an area of natural beauty and that extracting more coal is at odds with international pledges to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris climate pact."This is the first coal mine ever to be rejected in the UK because of climate change impacts  a vindication for everyone who has been calling for fossil fuels to be left in the ground," said Rose Dickinson, campaigner with environmental group Friends of the Earth.Britain has a legally binding target to cut emissions of harmful greenhouse gases, such as those produced by fossil-fuel-based power plants, by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050,It has also signed up to the international Paris agreement to curb emissions.(Reporting by Susanna Twidale, additional reporting by Barbara Lewis; Editing by Mark Potter and Jane Merriman)
OSLO   Human activities are causing an alarming decline in the variety of plant and animal life on Earth and jeopardizing food, clean water and energy supplies, a U.N.-backed study of biodiversity said on Friday.Climate change will become a steadily bigger threat to biodiversity by 2050, adding to damage from pollution and forest clearance to make way for agriculture, according to more than 550 experts in a set of reports approved by 129 governments."Biodiversity, the essential variety of life-forms on earth, continues to decline in every region of the world," the authors wrote after talks in Colombia. "This alarming trend endangers the quality of life of people everywhere."Four regional reports covered the Americas, Asia and the Pacific, Africa, Europe and Central Asia - all areas of the planet except the poles and the high seas.For the Americas, the report estimated that the value of nature to people - such as crops, wood, water purification or tourism - was at least $24.3 trillion a year, equivalent to the region\'s gross domestic product from Alaska to Argentina.Almost two-thirds of those natural contributions were in decline in the Americas, it said.Robert Watson, chair of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), said  biodiversity was not only about saving rare butterflies, trees, birds or rhinos.While that was important, he told Reuters a key message was: "Please stop thinking of biodiversity just as an environmental issue. It\'s way more important than that".ELEPHANTS AND MOSSESAmong other economic estimates, the Africa report said the absorption of greenhouse gases by a hectare (2.5 acres) of forest in Central Africa was worth $14,000 a year.Unless governments take strong action to limit greenhouse gas emissions, "climate change may be the biggest threat to biodiversity" by mid-century, Watson said.He said U.S. delegates had not challenged findings about man-made climate change, although U.S. President Donald Trump doubts mainstream scientific opinion and plans to pull out of the 2015 Paris climate agreement.For pollution, eight of 10 rivers around the world with most plastic waste were in Asia. On current trends, overfishing meant there could be no exploitable fish stocks in the Asia-Pacific region by mid-century.Around the world, ever more animals and plants were under threat from human activities, ranging from elephants in Africa to rare mosses and snails in Europe, the study said."By 2100, climate change could ... result in the loss of more than half of African bird and mammal species," said Emma Archer of South Africa, the co-chair of the African assessment.Rising human populations in many developing nations would require new policies, both to protect nature and to meet U.N. goals of eradicating poverty and hunger by 2030.In Europe and Central Asia, wetlands have declined by half since 1970, threatening many species.Amid the gloom, there were some bright spots.Forest cover had risen by 22.9 percent in China and other nations in northeast Asia between 1990 and 2015. Parks and other protected areas were expanding in many regions, including the Americas and Asia-Pacific.And populations of animals such as the Iberian lynx, Amur tiger and far eastern leopard were coming back from the brink of extinction thanks to conservation.(Reporting by Alister Doyle; Editing by Andrew Roche)


SACRAMENTO, Calif.   Nancy McFadden, chief of staff for California Gov. Jerry Brown and a driving force behind his agenda, died Thursday in her home after a long battle with ovarian cancer. She was 59."Nancy was the best chief of staff a governor could ever ask for," Brown said in a statement. "She understood government and politics, she could manage, she was a diplomat and she was fearless."McFadden was hired as Brown\'s chief of staff in 2011, when he returned to the governor\'s office, and quickly became an indispensable asset as he pushed ambitious polities on climate, criminal justice reform and more. McFadden could knock heads in political battle but was quick with humor and cared deeply for the people around her, friends and colleagues said.McFadden didn\'t know Brown and his wife, Anne Gust Brown, very well when she had a conversation with them after Brown\'s election that led to a job. But the three quickly became a well-matched team."She loved that (Brown) trusted her to be the implementer," said Donne Brownsey, McFadden\'s closest friend and a former lobbyist and legislative adviser. "He gave her, deservedly, wide latitude to form teams throughout state government to solve problems."McFadden\'s high-profile political work began long before she joined the Brown administration. She served as a deputy political director for Bill Clinton\'s 1992 presidential campaign.Brown, who was running against Clinton at the time, was one of Clinton\'s harshest critics. McFadden\'s role in the campaign included managing the fallout of Gennifer Flowers alleging an affair with Clinton.McFadden went on to be a deputy associate attorney general in Clinton\'s administration, then deputy chief of staff to Vice President Al Gore.She was featured in a 1994 Washington Post article titled "Who you gonna call?" about the "go-to" political insiders in the Clinton administration. McFadden frequently represented the U.S. Justice Department on conference calls with the White House, according to the article."Nancy McFadden was a truly extraordinary public servant thanks to her brilliant mind, big heart, and uncanny ability to get things done," Bill and Hillary Clinton said in a statement.McFadden\'s skills as a shrewd political negotiator were put to the test last year during the fight to reauthorize California\'s cap-and-trade program, a critical piece of Brown\'s climate change-fighting efforts. It was McFadden\'s job to find a bridge between the oil industry, environmental justice groups and lawmakers on both sides of the aisle.After months, she helped strike a deal that extended the landmark program through 2030 and focused on cleaning up poor air quality in low-income neighborhoods. It was a deal that made none of the sides completely happy, but one that passed.McFadden called it the most difficult job she ever faced.Former Assembly Republican Leader Chad Mayes, who gathered critical votes from a small group of Republicans, said McFadden was unfailingly honest and trustworthy during the complicated negotiations."She was incredibly tenacious without being overbearing," Mayes said. "During all of my time of working with Nancy she was always very warm and friendly, but she also knew what she needed. She was a true diplomat."McFadden was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in the early 2000s and beat it, only to have it return four years ago. She stepped away from the Capitol in January to focus on her health but was taking conference calls and working right up until the end, said Brownsey, who cared for her."I would be helping her because she was so ill and I would say, \'What do you want to do now?\' and she would say \'I think I\'ll make a few calls," Brownsey recalled.McFadden\'s style was "no drama, no ego" leadership, said Evan Westrup, Brown\'s press secretary.Friends and colleagues recall her as someone who loved Christmas, dinner parties, music and giving gifts. Despite her outsize presence, she gave credit to and celebrated the accomplishments of her team."I almost feel like she\'s standing behind me poking me saying make sure you talk about others and not me," Brownsey said.__Associated Press writer Jonathan J. Cooper contributed reporting.
WASHINGTON   Earth is losing plants, animals and clean water at a dramatic rate, according to four new United Nations scientific reports that provide the most comprehensive and localized look at the state of biodiversity.Scientists meeting in Colombia issued four regional reports Friday on how well animal and plants are doing in the Americas; Europe and Central Asia; Africa; and the Asia-Pacific area.Their conclusion after three years of study : Nowhere is doing well.The Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem was about more than just critters, said study team chairman Robert Watson. It is about keeping Earth livable for humans, because we rely on biodiversity for food, clean water and public health, the prominent British and U.S. scientist said."This is undermining well-being across the planet, threatening us long-term on food and water," Watson said in an interview.Scientists pointed to this week\'s death of the last male northern white rhino in Africa, severe declines in the numbers of elephants, tigers and pangolins, but said those are only the most visible and charismatic of species that are in trouble.What\'s happening is a side effect of the world getting wealthier and more crowded with people, Watson said. Humans need more food, more clean water, more energy and more land. And the way society has tried to achieve that has cut down on biodiversity, he said.Crucial habitat has been cut apart, alien species have invaded places, chemicals have hurt plants and animals, wetlands and mangroves that clean up pollution are disappearing, and the world\'s waters are overfished, he said.Man-made climate change is getting worse, and global warming will soon hurt biodiversity as much as all the other problems combined, Watson said."We keep making choices to borrow from the future to live well today," said Jake Rice, Canada\'s chief government scientist for fisheries and oceans, who co-chaired the Americas report.Duke University conservationist Stuart Pimm, who wasn\'t part of the study team, said the reports make sense and are based on well-established scientific data: "Are things pretty dire? Yes."Among the regional findings:THE AMERICASIf current trends continue, by the year 2050 the Americas will have 15 percent fewer plants and animals than now. That means there will be 40 percent fewer plants and animals in the Americas than in the early 1700s.Nearly a quarter of the species that were fully measured are now threatened, Rice said.And when all of "nature\'s contributions" are taken into account, nearly two-thirds are declining and more than one-fifth are "decreasing strongly," Rice said.ASIA-PACIFICIf trends continue, there will be no "exploitable fish stocks" for commercial fishing by 2048. Around that same, the region will lose 45 percent of its biodiversity and about 90 percent of its crucial corals, if nothing changes, said Asia co-chair Sonali Seneratna Sellamuttu, a senior researcher at the International Water Management Institute."All major ecosystems are threatened in the region," she said.EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIAEven though it is the region that Watson said may be doing the best, 28 percent of the species that only live in Europe are now threatened. In the last decade, 42 percent of the land plant and animal species have declined, said Europe co-chair Mark Rounsevell of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology in Germany.Wetlands have been cut in half since 1970.AFRICAAfrica could lose half of some bird and mammal species by 2100. And more than 60 percent of the continent\'s people depend on natural resources for their livelihoods, said report co-chair Luthando Dziba of South African National Parks.Already more than 20 percent of Africa\'s species are threatened, endangered or extinct.While scientists said government and society needs to change its ways, individuals can use less energy, less water and eat less red meat, Watson said."A balanced diet can really help," he said. There are "lots of individual things you can do."The outlook is bleak if society doesn\'t change, but it still can, Watson said."Some species are threatened with extinctions. Others, just pure numbers will go down," Watson said. "It will be a lonelier place relative to our natural world. It\'s a moral issue. Do we humans have a right to make them go extinct."___Follow Seth Borenstein on Twitter at @borenbears . His work can be found here .___The Associated Press Health & Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute\'s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.
MADRID   A Spanish Supreme Court judge charged 13 Catalan separatist politicians with rebellion Friday for their attempts to make the region independent of Spain, dealing a heavy blow to the secessionist movement with an indictment that could put its political elite behind bars for decades.Judge Pablo Llarena ordered five of the Catalan politicians who answered a court summons Friday to be held without bail. Another of the summoned politicians, the ERC party\'s Marta Rovira, did not heed the order and announced in a letter that she was fleeing the country to live "in exile." Spanish media reported that she went to Switzerland.The judge also ordered that European and international arrest warrants be issued for six fugitive Catalan politicians, including former regional president Carles Puigdemont and Rovira. Two other Catalan politicians are already in jail.The charges of rebellion stem from an illegal independence declaration by the Catalan parliament last October. Rebellion is punishable with up to 30 years in prison.Spanish courts sought Puigdemont\'s extradition from Brussels last year but canceled that petition amid concerns that Belgium might send him back but restrict the crimes with which he could be charged.The jailings Friday are likely to cause outrage in Catalonia, where many supporters describe the Catalan officials in custody as "political prisoners." The pro-independence civil society group ANC called for marches late Friday in towns across the region.The separatist movement in Catalonia, a wealthy region of 7.5 million in northeast Spain, has ignited Spain\'s biggest constitutional crisis in decades. The indictment Friday appeared to scotch hopes of breaking the political deadlock and installing a new Catalan government any time soon.Pro-independence political parties and civic groups in Catalonia have defied the Spanish government for the past six months with efforts to secede from Spain and create a new republic. They have repeatedly fallen foul of the courts and the Constitution, however.Polls show Catalans are equally divided on the secession issue, although a vast majority support holding a legal referendum on the issue.Legal and political constraints have prevented the slim separatist majority in Catalonia\'s parliament from electing a regional president and government since a December election. The latest failure, on Thursday, started a two-month countdown for either a government to be formed or for another ballot in the restive region.One of those jailed Friday was former Catalan government minister Jordi Turull, the third candidate since the December election to become Catalan president. Turull failed to gain enough votes from regional lawmakers on Thursday, but in theory had a second chance to be voted in Saturday by a simple majority.It was immediately unclear if Saturday\'s parliamentary vote could go ahead without Turull\'s physical presence.Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy declined to comment on the legal issues but said he is not enthusiastic about calling another regional election in Catalonia. Rajoy said he doesn\'t like repeat elections, explaining that "people vote and politicians have a duty to resolve problems and not create others."In his ruling, Llarena said 25 Catalan separatists in all will be tried for rebellion, embezzlement or disobedience.Others charged with rebellion were former Catalan Vice President Oriol Junqueras, who is already in detention; seven other members of the ousted Catalan government; former Catalan parliament speaker Carme Forcadell and jailed separatist activists Jordi Sanchez and Jordi Cuixart.Puigdemont appeared unshaken by the charges."Let\'s see what happens tomorrow, what happens today. Every day things change," Puigdemont said in Helsinki, where he was on a visit.He also criticized the judge\'s decision, suggesting Llarena was influenced by the political climate."It is not right for a judge to do politics," Puigdemont said.In explaining his decision to bring charges, Llarena said Catalan separatist politicians and groups had plotted ways of achieving Catalonia\'s independence for the past six years.Llarena described the case as "an attack on the constitutional State ... of unusual gravity and persistence."His ruling also warned that the strategy to secede is "dormant and awaiting resumption" once separatists regain control of the regional Catalan government.The semiautonomous region has been without a leader for nearly five months after central authorities in Madrid took control following October\'s independence declaration.____Hatton contributed from in Lisbon, Portugal. Renata Brito in Barcelona, Spain, also contributed.
HOUSTON  The yard signs appeared almost immediately. Canyon Gate was still in ruins, its streets strewn with moldy furniture, the stench of rot everywhere. But somehow, someone had managed to plant dozens, maybe hundreds of them across the tiny Houston suburb. One proclaimed Dump Your Home! Another, stuck into the dirt, read Flood Damage? We Can Help.Bernadette Leaney, 67, one of the thousands of Houston residents whose homes were swamped in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, hated them. She and her neighbors were just beginning their grim reckoning with the damage. Who could be looking to make a buck this soon? She tried to ignore the come-ons. But then I realized I just couldnt stand looking at them anymore, she said. They were adding to our despondency.She tore down every sign she came across  114 by her count  until another resident told her it was one of their own neighbors who had posted many of them. His name was Nick Pelletiere, she learned. He ran a company that transported cadavers for funeral homes, but recently he had expanded into another lightly regulated trade: buying and selling flooded homes. People in Canyon Gate called him Shady Nick.Mr. Pelletiere is one of the many speculators driving a new  and somewhat confounding  economy in neighborhoods across post-Harvey Houston, one that is especially notable in Canyon Gate, a subdivision built in the 1990s where rice fields once stretched to the horizon. Many parts of the city were hit hard by the hurricane, but Canyon Gate has the extraordinary distinction of being built within the confines of a reservoir specifically designed by the Army Corps of Engineers to protect central Houston from calamitous flooding. Nearly every one of the 721 homes there is destined to flood again, yet the local trade in storm-damaged real estate is flourishing.Canyon Gates dilemma lays bare a defining feature of coastal life in a time of climate change: Many of the neighborhoods where we already live should never have been built in the first place, and doubling down on reconstruction could make the consequences of the next disaster much more severe. But doubling down is what speculators do, and  at least in the short term  they are profiting from their efforts.Im the guy who put up the bandit signs around town, Mr. Pelletiere said one morning in February in his own flooded home, where he and his family were living on the second floor as contractors slowly repaired the first. He said that, like most of his neighbors, he had no idea that he was living inside a reservoir until the hurricane unleashed nearly 50 inches of rain and the reservoir  just as its designers intended  flooded the land all around him.But where some saw calamity, Mr. Pelletiere, a 47-year-old Chicagoan who followed his star to Houston two years ago, saw opportunity. Even as a volunteer boat team was evacuating him, his wife, their two children and the family dog, he was growing obsessed with a single thought: Its time to buy.And buy he did. Within weeks, Mr. Pelletiere snapped up seven properties in areas hit by Harvey, all at a steep discount from their pre-storm values, pocketing sizable gains while some of his neighbors were grappling with financial ruin. In one deal, Mr. Pelletiere bought a flooded four-bedroom home, valued at $280,000 before the storm, for $135,000. He sold it the same day to another investor for $165,000. After accounting for closing costs and the interest he paid on a short-term loan to complete the transaction (Mr. Pelletiere rarely uses his own money for such deals) he walked away with about $27,000, all in the space of just a few hours.Mr. Pelletiere laughed when he learned that his neighbors had taken to calling him Shady Nick. He said that the months since the storm had tested everyone. In December, he briefly flatlined during a test of his heart rate, he said. A few days later, he underwent surgery to have a pacemaker implanted in his chest to help treat heart failure.Neither the shady nickname nor the abnormal heart rate seemed to faze him.My other business is picking up dead people for funeral homes, Mr. Pelletiere said. A nice recession-proof hedge against real estate: People are always dying. Those who are alive need to buy or sell their homes. For me it comes down to the numbers of whether a deal is feasible.Houston has always drawn fortune seekers looking to make a quick buck. The city was founded in 1836 by two brothers from New York, John and Augustus Allen, who had immigrated to what was then northeast Mexico only to side with the pro-slavery separatists who led the Texas Revolution. Within a few months of the wars conclusion, they began to develop a patch of land on the Buffalo Bayou. They made a fortune in the murky trade of land certificates, promising would-be settlers that their mud-bogged, landlocked new city idyllically offered the sea breeze in all its freshness.Houston rose to prominence as the Gulf Coasts premier trading metropolis only after a hurricane laid waste to nearby Galveston, in 1900. But Houston, which is projected in about a decade to edge past Chicago as the third-largest city in the United States, has endured its own share of weather misfortune. The reservoir in which Canyon Gate persists owes its existence to yet another calamity, the Great Houston Flood of 1935. Rains that year turned the streets of downtown Houston into choppy rivers, killing several people and shutting down the Port of Houston for eight months. The solution? Authorities built flood-control reservoirs in the 1940s, in effect creating new flood zones to protect the old ones.Canyon Gate is designed to flood, but it is not part of the 100-year floodplain defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, so it is not covered by FEMA rules that require mortgage seekers in flood zones to buy flood insurance. Some residents say little effort has been made to inform buyers of the risks they face.In the beginning, it seemed like there was no need. Back in the 1940s, when the reservoirs were built, this place was way out of town, and they thought that the cows would just get out of the way if there was some overflow, said Judge Robert E. Hebert, a top elected official in Fort Bend County, a once sparsely-populated expanse that now has more than 700,000 residents, including those in Canyon Gate.But in the late 1990s, bolstered by Houstons rapid expansion and the construction of new roads nearby, a residential development company called Land Tejas unveiled plans for Canyon Gate. County officials insisted that the developer warn prospective buyers that the homes lay in a flood reservoir, and Land Tejas agreed to do so, but only by way of an obscure filing. This subdivision is adjacent to the Barker Reservoir and is subject to extended controlled inundation under the management of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the developer stated in 1997 in the fine print of the plat, the countys document approving the Canyon Gate subdivision.This is a man-made disaster were dealing with, make no mistake, Judge Hebert said. All these houses shouldnt have been built in the first place, and now the speculators are moving in. The last thing Id want to do is buy a house flooded in a reservoir.And yet the neighborhood is attractive in many ways. Canyon Gate, as its name suggests, offers a coveted sense of safety. It is also a remarkably cheap place to buy a home, and getting even cheaper. Spacious three-bedroom homes sold for about $230,000 before the storm, drawing some buyers from costlier real estate markets elsewhere in the United States. Now, homes in Canyon Gate go for about $130,000, and investors are scrambling to bet on Houstons recovery.Before the storm and after, Canyon Gate stood out for its capacity for welcoming people from around the world, its cul-de-sacs home to Nigerians, Indians, Venezuelans and Canadians, along with people from dozens of other countries. Fort Bend County ranks among the most ethnically diverse places in the world. Scholars at Rice Universitys Kinder Institute for Urban Research recently found that Fort Bend rivaled the diversity of New York and Los Angeles, with 35 percent of its population Anglo, 24 percent Latino, 21 percent African-American, and 19 percent Asian. Metropolitan Houston already has a population of 6.6 million and it is projected to reach 14.2 million by 2050, according to the Texas Demographic Center.As Houston sprawls over the prairies, its residents are reckoning with the likelihood that the city will flood time and again in the decades ahead. And if Canyon Gate is a harbinger, that means homeowners will face dizzying choices with each big storm: rebuild on the same spot, pull up stakes and move on  or effectively trade on their neighbors misfortune.Mr. Pelletiere, for his part, sees nothing wrong with buying flooded homes. He said he did not expect everyone to approve of what he was doing, but said that investing in such real estate depended on acquiring local knowledge and accurately measuring the value of a property. Even now, he said he refrained from informing buyers of his damaged homes of the flood risks, explaining that the law did not require him to do so.Yeah, people call me a vulture when they learn what I do, said Mr. Pelletiere, his sturdy frame clad in home-office attire of jeans, T-shirt and socks on a typical work day in February. He was darting around his home, barking instructions to construction workers fixing the first floor.In reality Im offering homeowners solutions, Mr. Pelletiere said. I was flooded, too, I get it, but this hurricane is a monstrous opportunity.Born and raised in Chicago, Mr. Pelletiere grew up washing dishes for $1 an hour in his fathers Italian restaurant. He dropped out of community college, he said, after realizing that higher education was not for him.Seeking opportunity, he lit out west for Southern California, where he met his wife, who works in the aviation software industry. Undaunted by his lack of a college degree, Mr. Pelletiere worked in corporate sales jobs, founded his cadaver-transport venture, and dabbled in real estate in San Diego, embracing the chance to use those skills when his wife was transferred to Houston.For some of his neighbors who remain unaware of his business activities, Mr. Pelletiere is just another recent transplant to Houstons suburbs. He keeps a low profile, coaching his sons baseball team and working from home, managing by phone and email his employees who drive vans around Southern California with bodies in them. With his earnings swelling after flipping homes in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Mr. Pelletiere said he was planning to embrace Texas business culture even more energetically, eyeing investments in dozens of oil wells in parts of the state.After the storm in August, Mr. Pelletiere joined a constellation of other speculators scrambling to buy flooded homes on the cheap. Mr. Pelletiere said that his ambition was to rival pioneering operators in the space, like Big State Home Buyers, one of Houstons largest buyers of storm-damaged properties.Brian Spitz, Big States president, said that he had developed a model for evaluating such homes, one that considered factors such as a neighborhoods desirability, whether the property was in a FEMA-designated flood zone, a subdivisions history of flooding and how much of a neighborhood flooded. Canyon Gate scored well on nearly every measure, and Big State bought 13 homes in the neighborhood in the months after the hurricane.Mr. Spitz, a fourth-generation Texan with family roots in the pest control business, plunged into the post-disaster frenzy, snapping up 150 homes around Houston in the first 90 days after the storm. He said that some of the most alluring opportunities were found in areas with relatively low-priced properties before the storm, since homeowners in those neighborhoods sometimes lacked the financial resources to quickly rebuild.Canyon Gate looked like a war zone after the storm, Mr. Spitz said. Ive never seen anything like it, and this is a city with a high frequency of flooding. In a place like that, were like the first responders, critical to getting the economy moving again, equipped to take on the risk.Ms. Leaney, who tore down all the bandit signs around Canyon Gate, remains one of the neighborhoods biggest boosters. A Canadian immigrant from British Columbia, she moved to Houston 13 years ago after living in Britain, Indonesia and France, countries where her husband worked for an oil services company. She said she was drawn to the community by its affordability and its access to open spaces. Now she is the president of the homeowners association.On a walk with her dogs one rainy day in February, Ms. Leaney noted that  but for the alligators, the wild boars and the occasional teenagers firing their shotguns  the woods that surround the reservoirs diversion channel could pass for the English countryside.She said that her views on speculating in flooded homes had evolved to the point where she and her husband recently decided to take the plunge themselves, buying a damaged home on their street for their daughter and her fianc.Some people say the investors are horrible, preying on vulnerable people, but thats not my view, said Ms. Leaney, emphasizing that buyers of flooded homes were paying the associations dues, badly needed for the upkeep of playgrounds, picnic areas, swimming facilities and attendants at the front gate. The investors like Nick are saving us. This is tough to acknowledge, but where would we be without them?Research by climate scientists suggests that speculators of flooded homes will only see their market expand. FEMA estimates that only 13 million Americans are now exposed to the destruction of a 100-year-flood, a benchmark used to describe an extreme flood with a 1 percent chance of occurring in any year, but researchers at the University of Bristol and The Nature Conservancy found instead that 41 million people in the country are at risk of such flooding  suggesting the authorities are vastly underestimating the risk of catastrophic weather.The Environmental Protection Agency also acknowledges that flooding is growing much more frequent along the United States coastline, especially in Mid-Atlantic States where subsiding land and increases in relative sea level contribute to making floods 10 times more common in some areas than in the 1950s.Human-induced climate change not only made Hurricane Harvey more destructive, but is also tripling the chances of further extreme rainfall along the Gulf Coast, according to studies presented at a recent meeting of the American Geophysical Union. One study showed that the seven-day rainfall from Harvey increased by at least 19 percent, and perhaps by as much as 38 percent, compared with similar storms in the mid-20th century, when the reservoirs designed to save the rest of Houston were built.Antonia Sebastian, a flood engineer at Rice University on the team of researchers that described how climate change made Hurricane Harvey more destructive, said she was as stunned as anyone to discover where Canyon Gate was built. If you drive around that area its surreal, because you dont even recognize youre in a reservoir, Ms. Sebastian said. Its so suburban, so flat, so normal, and theyre already rebuilding. I dont know what else to say other than recommend that the people living there get flood insurance.For the speculators, the cycle of destruction presents a simpler proposition. James Smith, a fast-talking, cowboy-boot clad veteran of the Marines, moved to Houston from Florida after the 2008 housing crash. As a real estate agent who deals in flooded homes, he acknowledged he is often the recipient of considerable negative energy.Some of the residents in Canyon Gate questioning why he would do such work showed him the middle finger when he pulled up in his Mercedes S.U.V. Others simply looked away, as if his presence was a reminder of their ebbing fortunes.But none of that bothers him, he said. Its all just a passing moment.Wait a few more months and youll see, Mr. Smith said. Everyones going to have short-term memory loss and life will get back to normal. Or what counts as normal around here.

When big shifts like recessions are on the way, economists just arent very good at predicting them.The truth is that we really cant foresee where the economy will be heading in a year or two, a limitation that is particularly troubling right now, in the midst of what may be called the Trump economic boom.President Trump is, after all, a public figure like no other, and his unique  and polarizing  effect on mass psychology appears to be muddling the economic data even more than usual.Consider how easy it is to be lulled into complacency about the current state of the economy. Growth in the gross domestic product has been strong, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act amounts to a stimulative fiscal policy, interest rates are still low and consumer confidence is high.All of this may cause us to assume that the economy will expand forever  and lead us to forget that recessions tend to come, on average, every five years (though lately, some have taken longer than that to develop). Since 1854, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the United States has had 33 recessions, and it has already been 105 months since the last one.If the economy manages to expand for 16 more months, the United States will have set a record. But whenever a recession arrives, the timing is likely to surprise most economists. Data from 1968 to 2017, supplied by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in its quarterly Survey of Professional Forecasters, shows that while professional forecasters as a group have had some ability to assess the probability that G.D.P. will decline in the next three months, they have exhibited no ability to do so a year in the future.In fact, the latest survey gives a 17 percent probability that real G.D.P. will decline a year from now  which is the average probability for a decline in one year given in all of the surveys since 1970. In essence, these forecasters are saying that nothing special is on the horizon. The risk of a recession is perfectly average. That might be comforting if these predictions were accurate, but, sadly, they are not.Then there are the confidence indexes, which measure perceptions of business activity in the present and near future. There are strong readings in much of the world. But these findings are limited in their scope.The Conference Board, for example, in its compilation of the Consumer Confidence Index in the United States, essentially asks respondents whether they think we are on the verge of a recession, or may even be in one. The index does not plumb the underlying attitudes that might be setting the stage either for a long and strong boom or a long and damaging depression, though it is a leading indicator of short-term shifts.At the moment, Mr. Trump appears to be elevating the levels of the main confidence indexes. Thats to be expected: He may well be the first president who is, at his core, a motivational speaker.Go with your gut, he said in the 2007 book Think Big and Kick Ass in Business and Life, which he wrote with Bill Zanker. (The title was later changed to Think Big: Make It Happen in Business and Life.) Take chances, he said. If you think you have the ingredients that you need, take chances, because your biggest successes will happen when you go against the tide.Mr. Trump seems to be a living example of going with your gut. Consider his comments on climate change. Scientists generally think global warming is real and human generated. Who would dare to take on all those scientists? Mr. Trump would, because their conclusions just dont sound right to him, even if he cant explain why. And the Trump narrative presents him as an unrivaled success: a billionaire, a bon vivant and now president.In the same book, Mr. Trump said his approach implied stress: I want to tell you about the negatives of business as well as the positives. I want to talk about the fact that most people are not cut out to deal with the high stress level of being a great success. But he advocates stressful risk-taking, not quiet contemplation, for readers who can handle it.Mr. Trump has personified these ideas and attracted millions of people to them, shifting mass psychology in ways that the confidence indexes will have a hard time capturing. The indexes routinely miss the major changes in spirit that cause long-term economic phenomena like the reckless prosperity of the Roaring Twenties, a decade of high adventuresome spirit in business. Too high, actually.This confidence crashed, shifting into the gloom of the Great Depression of the 1930s, a period characterized by waves of recriminations and disappointment. As the decade wore on, the term secular stagnation became prominent. That depression was great partly because it lasted more than 10 years. It wasnt the kind of greatness that Mr. Trump aspires to in his slogan Make America Great Again.A future downturn isnt a widespread top-of-mind concern, the confidence indexes show. Instead, we may surmise that at the moment, many people are emulating Mr. Trump and trying to think big. Even those who loathe him might be inspired by his personal success, though this isnt being measured by the confidence indexes.But at some point, a significant recession will appear. We can only guess what might make it materialize.Contagious words and stories, analogous to those using the #MeToo hashtag, could be enough to change the public mood about the Trump boom. Maybe a shift will come from the kind of stories that contributed to the dot-com collapse: tales of recently revered companies that turned out to have taken too many chances and so flamed out and crashed.A downturn could be set off by compromising stories about Mr. Trump himself, possibly those impugning his judgment in starting an international trade war. Or maybe it will be something subtler, whose link to animal spirits and mass psychology is only indirect.We dont really know what will do it. But rest assured, the next recession will surely come.
John R. Bolton is hardly known for sugarcoating his views. He once derided the United Nations by citing its 38-story headquarters in New York. If it lost 10 stories, he said, it wouldnt make a bit of difference.As it happened, Mr. Bolton went on to serve as the United States ambassador to the United Nations, perhaps the most undiplomatic of diplomats. But if President Trump wanted a national security adviser who would match his blunt, hard-edge, confrontational approach to the world, then Mr. Bolton fits the bill.With his trademark bushy gray mustache and his take-no-prisoners style, Mr. Bolton positioned himself to the right even of the foreign policy veterans who emerged from President George W. Bushs administration, a hawk among hawks, a hard-liner who thrills conservatives and chills moderates and liberals. From his perch on Fox News, he has impressed Mr. Trump with a muscular vision of American power and a dark assessment of Americas adversaries.When he takes over as Mr. Trumps third national security adviser in 14 months, Mr. Bolton will almost surely encourage Mr. Trumps instincts against diplomatic agreements both consider weak and unwise. He shares the presidents derisive opinion of the Iran nuclear deal and will presumably prod him to scrap it when a May deadline arrives. He likewise takes a dim view of international agreements like the Paris climate change accord, from which Mr. Trump announced last year that he would withdraw the United States. He has called the two-state solution for Israel and the Palestinians dead.But Mr. Bolton is not always in step with a president who sometimes veers back and forth between threatening fire and fury and eagerly seeking talks with foreign leaders. Mr. Bolton argues the virtues of pre-emptive military action against North Korea and scorns diplomacy of the sort Mr. Trump has embarked on with Kim Jong-un. He promotes more punitive sanctions against Russia rather than the kind of hand-holding flattery of President Vladimir V. Putin that Mr. Trump practiced even this week. He supported the Iraq war, which Mr. Trump calls a catastrophic mistake.In an interview on Thursday evening on Fox, Mr. Bolton said he recognized that his role would be to play the honest broker bringing different views to the president, and that it would be up to Mr. Trump to make the decisions.But he made clear that he also planned to be Mr. Trumps enforcer. When the president makes a decision, he said, part of his job will be making sure the bureaucracies get the decision and implement it.Mr. Bolton criticized the frequent leaks out of Mr. Trumps national security team, saying that a president cannot conduct diplomacy if some munchkin in the White House is leaking information to the news media. Leaking of that sort is simply unacceptable, he said.Mr. Boltons appointment elicited mixed reviews. Selecting John Bolton as national security adviser is good news for Americas allies and bad news for Americas enemies, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. He has a firm understanding of the threats we face from North Korea, Iran and radical Islam.Critics, however, expressed concern that a bomb thrower in words could become a bomb thrower in deeds. Bolton played a key role in politicizing the intel that misled us into the Iraq War, Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, wrote on Twitter. We cannot let this extreme war hawk blunder us into another terrible conflict.Clifford Kupchan, the chairman of the Eurasia Group, a consultant firm, sent a note to clients warning that Mr. Boltons appointment increases risk across the board, adding that it makes U.S. foreign policy America First on Steroids.At one point, Mr. Bolton toyed with running for president himself, only to back off. Instead, he created an organization to support like-minded candidates. His super PAC was one of the earliest customers of Cambridge Analytica, which has found itself confronting a deepening crisis after reports last weekend that the firm had harvested the data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles in its bid to develop techniques for predicting the behavior of individual American voters.The firm was founded with a $15 million investment from Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor who has backed both Mr. Boltons PAC and Mr. Trump. Cambridges so-called psychographic modeling techniques, which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook, underpinned its work for the Trump campaign in 2016, setting off a furious debate about the merits of the firms methods. The same techniques were also the focus of its work for Mr. Boltons PAC.Using the psychographic models, the company designed advertisements from candidates supported by Mr. Boltons PAC, including the 2014 campaign of Thom Tillis, the Republican senator from North Carolina. One advertisement, a video that was posted on YouTube, was aimed at fearful and neurotic voters  it emphasized security and the idea that Mr. Tillis could keep the United States safe.Mr. Bolton also recorded a video used by a Russian gun rights group in 2013 to encourage Moscow to loosen gun laws, according to a report by NPR. The report said the video was part of an effort by Russian and American gun rights groups to collaborate in the years leading up to the 2016 election.A native of Baltimore, Mr. Bolton, 69, received undergraduate and law degrees from Yale University. In between stints in private practice, he took a series of increasingly important jobs in government, starting at the United States Agency for International Development under President Ronald Reagan and later as an assistant attorney general.After the 2000 election, Mr. Bolton joined the Republican legal team in Florida during the recount battle between Mr. Bush and Vice President Al Gore. After the Supreme Court halted the recount, resulting in Mr. Bushs victory, Dick Cheney, the new vice president, persuaded the incoming secretary of state, Colin L. Powell, to make Mr. Bolton an under secretary in charge of arms control. In that role, he helped pull the United States out of the Antiballistic Missile treaty but negotiated a separate treaty with Russia paring nuclear arsenals.When Condoleezza Rice succeeded Mr. Powell, she rebuffed pressure from Mr. Cheney to make Mr. Bolton her deputy. Instead, Mr. Bush nominated him for the United Nations post, but key Republicans opposed him, including a former assistant secretary of state who testified that Mr. Bolton was a kiss-up, kick-down sort of guy who abused underlings.After the Senate refused to confirm Mr. Bolton, Mr. Bush gave him a recess appointment instead  a decision he would come to regret. Mr. Bolton clashed regularly with Ms. Rice and, after leaving office, broke with Mr. Bush over what he saw as weak-kneed policies on North Korea and Iran.He titled his memoir Surrender Is Not an Option, and called the Foreign Service officers in the State Departments East Asian and Pacific Affairs Bureau the EAPeasers. He even went after Mr. Bush. Nothing can erase the ineffable sadness of an American presidency, like this one, in total intellectual collapse, he wrote in The Wall Street Journal.Mr. Bush bristled and, in a private meeting with a group of conservatives, said, Let me just say from the outset that I dont consider Bolton credible. Other former colleagues fought back more publicly. Christopher Hill, who negotiated with North Korea for Mr. Bush, dismissed Mr. Bolton as Phyllis Schlafly with a mustache.After Mr. Trumps election in 2016, Ms. Rice and other Bush administration veterans like former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Stephen J. Hadley, the former national security adviser, privately warned against an appointment for Mr. Bolton.Mr. Trump considered Mr. Bolton for several posts but ultimately backed away each time. Unlike some of them, national security adviser does not require Senate confirmation. In the interim, Mr. Bolton has repeatedly praised Mr. Trump on television and in his Wall Street Journal columns even when the two disagreed.He wrote on Twitter this month that sanctions on Mr. Putin and his inner circle needed to be tougher. If you want to punish a country for behavior you dont accept, you need punishing sanctions that are broad, not targeted, and they need to be enforced, he wrote.In a Journal column, he made the case for a pre-emptive military strike against North Korea. Given the gaps in U.S. intelligence about North Korea, we should not wait until the very last minute, he wrote. That would risk striking after the North has deliverable nuclear weapons, a much more dangerous situation. Other options, he told a reporter, would be persuading China to topple North Koreas government or reuniting the peninsula under South Korean rule, although he acknowledged neither was likely.A couple of weeks ago, he went on Fox to disdain South Koreas willingness to negotiate with North Korea. Theyre like putty in North Koreas hands, he said. As the great international relations theorist P. T. Barnum put it, theres a sucker born every minute. Two days later, Mr. Trump accepted an invitation to meet with North Koreas Mr. Kim.As he prepared to take on his new assignment, however, Mr. Bolton was careful to minimize any differences with Mr. Trump. Asked Thursday evening on Fox about the presidents decision to congratulate Mr. Putin on winning an election that most of the world considered a sham, Mr. Bolton said, I dont consider it a significant point one way or the other, adding, its a matter of being polite.
