CHEYENNE, Wyo.   The Latest on a judge's ruling on coal mining and climate change (all times local):2:15 p.m.A judge has ruled U.S. government officials engaged in regional planning for an area that supplies 40 percent of the nation's coal must consider reducing coal mining to fight climate change.Friday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Great Falls, Montana, applies to the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana.Morris rejected U.S. Bureau of Land Management officials' argument that climate change could be addressed during evaluations of plans for individual mine expansions.The judge told the government and environmental groups to work together on additional planning for the top U.S. coal producing region.Environmentalists praised the ruling but Morris denied their request to halt mining.BLM spokesman Brad Purdy says the federal agency is reviewing the ruling before deciding what to do next.___1:15 p.m.A judge has ruled U.S. government officials engaged in regional planning for an area that supplies 40 percent of the nation's coal must consider reducing coal mining to fight climate change.Friday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Great Falls, Montana, applies to the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana.Morris rejected U.S. Bureau of Land Management officials' argument that climate change could be addressed during evaluations of plans for individual mine expansions.The judge told the government and environmental groups to work together on additional planning for the top U.S. coal producing region.Environmentalists praised the ruling but Morris denied their request to halt mining.Land management bureau officials and coal industry representatives did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment.
CHEYENNE, Wyo.   U.S. government officials who engage in regional planning for an area of Wyoming and Montana that supplies 40 percent of the nation\'s coal must consider reducing coal mining as a way to fight climate change, a judge has ruled.Friday\'s ruling by U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Great Falls, Montana, applies to the Powder River Basin, where house-sized dump trucks haul loads mined around the clock from open-pit coal mines. Some of the mines measure more than a mile wide.Morris rejected U.S. Bureau of Land Management officials\' argument that climate change could be addressed when they consider whether to allow individual mine expansions.Morris ordered the government and environmental groups to work together on additional planning for the top U.S. coal producing region. He declined environmentalists\' request to halt mining.Still, environmental groups praised the ruling."For decades, the federal government has kept their head in the sand over the climate impacts of fossil fuel extraction on public land," Mike Scott with the one of the six plaintiffs, the Sierra Club, said in a release. "This ruling is the latest example of courts forcing the federal government to be honest with the American public about how coal, oil and gas leasing is contributing to the growing impacts of climate change."Coal mined from Powder River Basin mines and burned in power plants is responsible for 13 percent of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, according to the Natural Resources Defense Council.In September, a ruling by the U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver cast doubt on a longstanding U.S. government argument that blocking leasing of federal coal reserves wouldn\'t affect climate change because the coal could simply be mined elsewhere.Morris sided with the Bureau of Land Management on another climate-change issue: Methane emissions from the oil and gas wells. Environmentalists argued unsuccessfully that BLM planning in Wyoming and Montana should have done more to reduce or offset that pollution.The agency is reviewing the ruling to determine what it will do next, spokesman Brad Purdy said Monday."We certainly have concerns and we are reviewing the decision and its implications," Travis Deti with the Wyoming Mining Association said by email.The planning occurred as BLM officials in Miles City and Buffalo, Montana, updated their regional resource management plans for the first time in decades. In each case, they considered several alternatives for future coal mining in the Powder River Basin.In each alternative, BLM officials assumed they would allow identical amounts of land, volume of coal reserves leased and coal production. Morris ruled that not considering alternatives that would result in less mining violated the National Environmental Policy Act.___

CAIRO   Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi is running virtually unopposed in this week\'s elections after a series of potentially serious candidates were arrested or withdrew from the race under pressure.The vote will be the least competitive of the three presidential elections held in Egypt since the 2011 uprising ended Hosni Mubarak\'s 29-year reign and raised hopes of democratic change.El-Sissi\'s only opponent is Moussa Mustafa Moussa, a little-known politician who supports the president and has made almost no effort to campaign against him.Here is a look at more serious contenders who failed to make the ballot.___AHMED SHAFIQA former air force general and Mubarak\'s last prime minister, Shafiq lived in self-imposed exile in the United Arab Emirates since shortly after finishing a close second in the 2012 presidential election won by the Islamist Mohammed Morsi. In December, he was deported from the Emirates, a close Egyptian ally, and flown back to Cairo after he announced he intended to run. He was met at the airport by unidentified security men and whisked away to a suburban hotel. Government representatives persuaded him to abandon his presidential ambitions, raising the specter of legal proceedings over alleged corruption during his tenure as civil aviation minister, according to numerous, unconfirmed reports. In January, he said did not believe himself to be the "ideal" man to lead the country at this stage.___SAMI ANNANThe former general quietly served as the military\'s chief of staff under Mubarak, drawing national attention only in the 17 months of military rule after Mubarak\'s ouster. As the deputy head of the then-ruling Supreme Military Council, he negotiated the transfer of power to Morsi in June 2012. Two months later, Morsi removed him. In January, he announced his intent to challenge el-Sissi and posted a video on social media that berated the president for involving the military in civilian affairs and urging civilian and military institutions to stay neutral in the race. On Jan. 23, the military detained him over charges that included incitement against the armed forces and forgery.___KHALED ALIThe prominent rights lawyer was the last potentially serious challenger until Jan. 24, when he announced he was quitting the race. He complained that authorities targeted his supporters and that poor Egyptians had been bribed by el-Sissi loyalists to sign documents supporting his candidacy. His own supporters faced delays and intimidation at notary offices, where they needed to register 25,000 "recommendations" for him to qualify as a candidate. A key left-leaning figure in the 2011 uprising, Ali had the potential to win protest votes and revive interest in street politics by fellow "revolutionaries" whose ranks have been depleted by imprisonment, exile or marginalization.___MOHAMMED ANWAR SADATThe former lawmaker said he quit the race because the climate was not conducive for campaigning and because he feared for the safety of his supporters. A nephew of Egypt\'s assassinated leader Anwar Sadat, he was thrown out of parliament amid allegations of leaking sensitive documents to foreign diplomats.___AHMED KONSOWAThe army colonel declared his intention to run, only to be court-martialed and convicted of breaching military regulations prohibiting political activism. He was sentenced to six years in prison in December.
___Is Zuckerberg willing to act boldly to fix Facebook crisis?Mark Zuckerberg says he is determined to fix Facebook, but the billionaire CEO is a study in contradictions. Praised as brilliant but stubborn, he is uniquely positioned to tackle the crisis enveloping the world's largest social network, which is under fire for allowing dark forces to exploit it, without protecting its 2.2 billion users. But is he prepared to do all that it will take?___FTC, states increase pressure on Facebook on privacyNEW YORK (AP)  U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook, as they probe whether the company's data collection practices have hurt the people who use its services. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook's privacy practices following a week of privacy scandals including allegations a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook users. Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, plunged further.___Frontier gun maker Remington seeks bankruptcy protectionRemington, the storied gun maker that began turning out flintlock rifles when there were only 19 states in the Union, has filed for bankruptcy reorganization amid years of slumping sales and legal and financial pressure over the Sandy Hook school massacre. It plans to turn over control to its creditors and continue operating. Gun sales in the U.S. have slid since the election of Donald Trump eased fears the government would crack down on firearms.___Watch it, Facebook: new EU data rules may have broad impactLONDON (AP)  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the information of millions of subscribers. The fact is, new European regulations will force him to do so by the end of May. The new rules are arguably the most significant regulation in a generation. They are an effort to catch up on all the technological advances for decades, when the last comprehensive measures were put in place.___US stocks rally; Dow surges 669, clawing back lost groundNEW YORK (AP)  News that the U.S. and China are open to negotiate to avert a trade war put investors in a buying mood Monday, giving the market its best day in more than two years and erasing about half of its huge losses last week. Technology companies accounted for much of the broad rally, which powered the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 670 points.___Judge: Less mining must be studied for No. 1 US coal regionCHEYENNE, Wyo. (AP)  A judge has ruled U.S. government officials engaged in regional planning for an area that supplies 40 percent of the nation's coal must consider reducing coal mining to fight climate change. Friday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Great Falls, Montana, applies to the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana. Environmentalists praised the ruling but Morris denied their request to halt mining.___South Korea agrees to further open auto market to USSEOUL, South Korea (AP)  South Korea has agreed to further open its auto market to the United States as the two countries prepare to amend their six-year-old free trade agreement. Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said Monday that the United States will end tariffs on South Korean pick-up trucks in 2041 instead of 2021, while South Korea will relax standards on imported U.S. vehicles. Kim said South Korea won an exemption from import tariffs on steel products.___Battle brews over fund that feeds Alaskans' yearly oil checkJUNEAU, Alaska (AP)  A battle is brewing over earnings from Alaska's oil wealth fund, which provides annual payouts for residents in the state. Lawmakers are faced with limited options for filling a budget deficit that has deepened amid years of low oil prices. They're considering dipping into fund earnings to help pay the state's bills. Major proposals include changing how Alaskans' annual checks from fund earnings are calculated. The check amount has been capped the past two years, fueling anger among some.___Comptroller: Wall Street average bonus topped $184K in 2017ALBANY, N.Y. (AP)  New York state's top elected fiscal officer says the average bonus paid to securities industry employees in New York City rose by 17 percent last year as Wall Street profits soared for a second consecutive year. Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli says Monday that the average bonus paid to brokers jumped to more than $184,000. Pretax profits for operations of New York Stock Exchange member firms jumped 42 percent to $24.5 billion.___The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 70.29 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,658.55. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 669.40 points, or 2.8 percent, to 24,202.60. The Dow lost more than 1,400 points last week and is still down slightly for the year.Benchmark U.S. crude fell 33 cents to settle at $65.55 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 33 cents to close at $70.12 in London.
NEW YORK   Some of Wall Street\'s heaviest hitters are stepping into the national debate on guns as investment firms ask firearms makers what they are doing about gun violence.The firms speak softly, but because they own trillions of dollars\' worth of stock, their voices travel far. And they\'re now joining forces with some unusual allies, including smaller and untraditional investors. In this context, the investment fund BlackRock, which owns big stakes in three different gun makers, might end up working alongside a group of nuns.Sister Judith Byron, the director and coordinator of the Northwest Coalition for Responsible Investment, says her group and BlackRock appear to have similar ideas when it comes to gun manufacturers and retailers. Following the killing of 17 students and teachers at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, funds like BlackRock started asking gun manufacturers what they are doing to reduce the risks of gun violence, and asking retailers how much they make from selling guns.Byron says her group, a coalition of religious communities and health care systems, invested in firearms makers a decade ago and has been working on gun safety issues for years. In the last few months the coalition introduced resolutions pushing American Outdoor Brands, Sturm Ruger and retailer Dick\'s Sporting Goods to give reports to investors about the steps they are taking to reduce gun violence."We\'re hoping we can engage these big investors and encourage them to vote for our resolutions," she says.Some larger investors have similar views. The biggest public pension funds in the U.S., CalPERS, recently refused to sell its investments in companies that sell assault rifles. It says that by remaining an investor, it\'s been able to get those companies to make positive changes.The nuns aren\'t protesters, and they don\'t carry props or signs to disrupt board meetings, although they sometimes work alongside groups that use those tactics. Byron says some of the shareholder meetings she\'s attended have been downright pleasant, with investors and board members thanking her for asking questions.Support from investment firms was crucial to the coalition\'s big success last year when, after decades of work, it backed a successful resolution that required oil giant Exxon Mobil to disclose the effects climate change is having on its business.Erik Gordon, a professor at the University of Michigan\'s Ross School of Business, said companies are often reluctant to risk any sales in order to do the responsible thing. But it does sometimes happen, as when CVS stores stopped selling cigarettes in 2014. He said activists deserve most of the credit for getting the funds to speak out."BlackRock didn\'t wake up one morning and say, \'We are going to take a different approach to investing, it\'s the right thing to do,\'" he said. "It\'s a reaction to the activists."The top priority of firms like BlackRock, State Street and mutual fund company Vanguard is to make as much money as possible for their clients. But because they own so much stock, they can wield a lot of influence: They can support new directors who want to change the direction of the company and back proposals that change the way it operates.BlackRock is a major shareholder in gun makers Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands, and Vista Outdoor Brands. About a week after the shooting in Parkland, BlackRock said it wanted to speak with the three firearms makers about their responses to the tragedy. The fund said it is looking into creating new investment funds for investors that exclude firearms makers and retailers, and if many funds and investors followed suit, that would affect the price of those stocks.In a letter to BlackRock, American Outdoor Brands said it supports steps that will promote gun safety while protecting the rights of firearm owners. The company said it backs measures including improved background checks and improved support for people with mental illnesses, but said it\'s opposed to "politically motivated action" that won\'t improve public safety. Sturm Ruger did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In other words, there are limits to the funds\' power. They aren\'t choosy investors and won\'t dump the gun makers no matter what they say. That\'s because their main investment strategy to invest in huge numbers of companies, including every stock listed on the Standard & Poor\'s 500 index.According to Todd Rosenbluth, CFRA\'s director of research into funds and exchange-traded funds, that means BlackRock and Vanguard don\'t have that much leverage compared to activist investors or hedge funds. Those investors can have more dramatic effects on individual companies because they can buy up the stock, run for seats on the board themselves, or threaten to sell the shares if they don\'t like the company\'s choices."They can use their wallet and sell the shares or they can pressure the companies and threaten to sell the shares if actions aren\'t taken," said Rosenbluth. So far, he said those investors aren\'t really getting involved in the debate.Still, there have been changes: Dick\'s, Walmart, Kroger and L. L. Bean have all said they will no longer sell guns to shoppers under the age of 21. Rosenbluth said that has more to do with the ongoing national debate about gun safety and regulations than anything the investment firms have said, and he believes laws will ultimately have a larger effect.But Byron, who also wants new gun laws, says she is encouraged by the response from corporate America."We see companies taking leadership roles in environmental and social issues, which is encouraging," said Byron, adding that as shareholders, "they\'re our companies. We own them."
LONDON  History was not supposed to turn out this way.In the aftermath of World War II, the victorious Western countries forged institutions  NATO, the European Union, and the World Trade Organization  that aimed to keep the peace through collective military might and shared prosperity. They promoted democratic ideals and international trade while investing in the notion that coalitions were the antidote to destructive nationalism.But now the model that has dominated geopolitical affairs for more than 70 years appears increasingly fragile. Its tenets are being challenged by a surge of nationalism and its institutions under assault from some of the very powers that constructed them  not least, the United States under President Trump.In place of shared approaches to societal problems  from trade disputes, to security, to climate change  national interests have captured primacy. The language of multilateral cooperation has been drowned out by angry appeals to tribal solidarity, tendencies that are heightened by economic anxieties.What weve seen is a kind of backlash to liberal democracy, said Amandine Crespy, a political scientist at Free University Brussels (ULB) in Belgium. Masses of people feel they have not been properly represented in liberal democracy.Even as nationalists take aim at globalists, the eventual shape of international relations remains an open question. In a sign that investors are optimistic that talks can yet avert a trade war between the United States and China, markets soared on Monday. And the United States, Canada and other European nations expelled Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain over the poisoning of a Russian defector in London, enhancing hopes that old alliances will endure.Still, public anger at traditional centers of power remains fierce in many lands, with Mr. Trumps election the most potent manifestation. He has claimed a mandate to attack the global establishment and its sacred institutions in the name of reasserting American primacy. He has injected uncertainty into the American commitment to NATO while dismissing the World Trade Organization as a disaster.Within a White House roiled by tumult, recent weeks have demonstrated that the nationalists have seized the upper hand from their few globalist peers. Gary Cohn, the Goldman Sachs alumnus who advised Mr. Trump on economic policy, has departed. Peter Navarro, the stridently anti-China trade adviser, has gained influence. Since then, Mr. Trump has antagonized core allies with tariffs on steel and aluminum while raising the specter of a trade war with China.But the United States is far from the only power tearing at the foundations of the postwar order.Britain is abandoning the European Union, turning its back on the project whose very existence is an expression of faith that integration discourages hostilities. Italy just elevated two populist political parties that nurse historical animosities against the bloc.Poland and Hungary, once viewed as triumphs of democracy flowering in post-Soviet soil, have shackled the media, cracked down on public gatherings, and attacked the independence of their court systems.This re-emergence of authoritarian impulses has undercut a central thrust of European policy since the end of the Cold War. Expanding NATO and the European Union by bringing in Eastern European nations was supposed to have prompted the newcomers to adopt the liberal democratic values of their fellow members. Things went differently.China has used its economic power  enhanced by its entry to the W.T.O. in 2001  to reinforce the authority of a state still controlled by the Communist Party. This, too, has dashed hopes that Chinas integration into the global economy would lead to its democratization.And Russia, which joined the trading organization in 2012, has since intensified a foreign policy that is centered on confrontation.For anyone still inclined to believe that liberal democracy is the inevitable outgrowth of human progress  an outcome hastened by the postwar institutions  these events have provided a sobering rejoinder.What we are returning to is great power politics, said Derek Shearer, a former American ambassador to Finland during the Clinton administration and the director of the McKinnon Center for Global Affairs at Occidental College in Los Angeles.The causes of this turn vary from country to country, but a common element is public distrust of institutions amid a sense that the masses have been abandoned.In the United States and Britain, working people have suffered joblessness and declining living standards while political leaders have prescribed policies that have enriched the elite  more trade deals, fewer strictures on bankers. These countries economies have been bolstered by trade, but not enough of the gains have filtered down to working people.Even as China has violated trade rules, subsidizing state-owned companies and stealing innovations from foreign investors, commerce across the Pacific has lifted the American economy. But American leaders have failed to deliver job training and other programs that might have cushioned the blow for communities hurt by imports.Many people in Europe and the United States have not benefited very much from overall economic growth over the past few decades, and they are naturally skeptical of the policies and leaders in place, said Douglas W. Elmendorf, dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. But the solution is not to throw out the liberal order. It is to complement it with government policies that allow people to share in the benefits.Economic threats have combined with rising nativist inclinations to amplify hostility toward power centers.In Poland, Hungary, Britain and Italy, distrust of the European Union reflects public anger at its liberal immigration policies, and an influx of people from Muslim countries. In the United States, Mr. Trump has found support among those inclined to blame immigrants for joblessness, and Muslims for security threats.Mr. Trumps trademarks  Make America Great Again, and America First  underscore his forsaking of his countrys traditional commitment to collective ideals.When he bypassed the World Trade Organization last week to slap tariffs on some $60 billion in Chinese imports, Mr. Trump reinforced his scorn for multilateralism as the province of weak-kneed sentimentalists. He appears to subscribe to the notion that the United States, the largest economy on earth, must unabashedly pursue its self-interest, free of constraints like nave reverence for the rules of the global trading system.In Europe, Mr. Trumps willingness to flout trade rules has combined with his denunciation of the Paris climate accord and his equivocal support for NATO to force questions about Americas reliability.The U.S. was always seen as a stabilizing force within the post-World War II order, said Ms. Crespy of the Free University Brussels. From a European perspective, the shock comes from the fact that the U.S. is now seen as a destabilizing force, like Russia, and ironically making China look more moderate.The institutions created after World War II have never lacked for critics  or instances of failing to live up to lofty rhetoric.The International Monetary Fund has long provoked criticism that it caters to the investor class while imposing austerity on ordinary people in crisis-hit countries. Trade deals have been crafted to advance the interests of politically connected special interests. Labor groups have accused the European Union of harboring an unhealthy obsession for avoiding budget deficits at the expense of jobs. Democratic convictions have not stopped the West from supporting authoritarian regimes in pursuit of their own strategic goals.But if the justice of the liberal order has been contentious, now its basic endurance appears in question.In the early 1990s, shortly after the Berlin Wall came down and the West claimed victory in the Cold War, Francis Fukuyama, a Stanford University political scientist, famously suggested that the global arrangement of power had reached its conclusion.What we may be witnessing is not just the end of the Cold War, or the passing of a particular period of postwar history, but the end of history, Mr. Fukuyama wrote in a book that took that provocative phrase as its title. That is, the end point of mankinds ideological evolution and the universalization of Western liberal democracy as the final form of human government.Thinkers across the ideological spectrum excoriated Mr. Fukuyama for penning historys premature obituary. Some accused him of evangelizing for American power. Others would say he was blind to the threat of radical Islamist terrorism, the resurgence of Russia, and the ascendance of China.Last year, with Mr. Trump assuming office, Britain leaving Europe, and nationalists on the march, Mr. Fukuyama suggested a new obituary might be required  for the liberal world order.More than a year into the Trump era, Mr. Fukuyama has only grown more alarmed.What youre seeing now is really insidious, because its coming from within democracies, he said in an interview. Its not just the U.S., but Hungary, Turkey, Poland and Russia, where you have a democratically elected leader who is trying to dismantle the liberal parts of liberal democracy. We are seeing a new type of threat that I dont really think weve seen in my lifetime.History is still running. New leaders may be capable of delivering policies that could restore faith in internationalism. Yet for now, the globalists who have long dominated are losing ground to a thriving nationalist insurgency.Trump is weakening the United States at a crucial time, said Mr. Shearer, the former ambassador to Finland. Its more important than ever that the U.S. be strong and united and stand up for the values we claim to stand for. This America First, Go It Alone, is so wrongheaded. Its bad for us, and bad for the world.
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: President Trump has ordered 60 Russians to leave the U.S., adding to a cascade of actions by Western countries in response to the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy and Poland were among the countries that announced plans to force out some of Moscows envoys.The American expulsion order, which includes a dozen people identified as Russian intelligence officers working at the U.N., will also close the Russian Consulate in Seattle. Its  the toughest action taken against the Kremlin by Mr. Trump, who has been criticized for not being firm enough with President Vladimir Putin. Thats a beautiful little girl, it would be a shame if something happened to her mom.In a 60 Minutes interview broadcast on Sunday, the pornographic film star said that she and her daughter were approached in Las Vegas in 2011 by a man who told her: Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.The actress, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, told Anderson Cooper that the threat was behind her decision to strike a $130,000 deal for her silence about an alleged affair with Donald Trump. She is now suing to get out of that agreement. Our profile of Ms. Clifford was one of our most popular articles over the weekend. The rallies protesting gun violence drew hundreds of thousands around the U.S. and the world over the weekend, and Democratic and Republican leaders say the issue could play a major role in voting in November.Opinion polls show wide support for gun control. Republicans are fighting to maintain their appeal with the partys dwindling moderate wing in the suburbs, but the gun debate also poses problems for some Democrats, who will be defending Senate seats in strongly conservative states.The March for Our Lives demonstrations were led by young people but they had the financial backing and organizational muscle of adults. Here are photographs from the protests. While were on the subject of guns, Remington, one of the oldest firearm manufacturers in the U.S., filed for bankruptcy protection on Sunday. As President Trump faces the important decision of whether to be interviewed in the special counsels investigation, his personal legal team has essentially been reduced to one: Jay Sekulow.Top lawyers in New York and Washington have repeatedly spurned overtures to take over the defense of Mr. Trump, who has publicly contradicted his advisers at times.The president has a different view: Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case, he said on Twitter.Mr. Sekulow said on Sunday that Mr. Trump would not be hiring two lawyers who were announced only last week as additions to the team. Separately, we looked at how a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trumps presidential campaign later marketed his connections to politicians and governments around the world, including some with unsavory records. The photographer John Moore has spent nearly a decade along the U.S.-Mexico border, covering the story of immigration from all sides.He captures images of the landscape, with its natural and manufactured lines of defense. He also takes intimate portraits of migrants and border officers. Here are 17 of his photographs. South Korea said today that it had won an exemption from U.S. steel tariffs after the two countries agreed to amend their free-trade deal. Amazon now collects sales tax in every state that has one, but some cities are missing out. S.U.V.s will be in the spotlight at the New York auto show, one of the headlines to watch this week. U.S. stocks were down on Friday. Heres a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Explore how to age with meaning and happiness. Change your bad habit by replacing it with something different. Recipe of the day: Embrace a meatless Monday with stir-fried peppers, eggplant and tofu.Caroline Wyatt has been a superb reporter for the BBC on topics ranging from defense to religion. Here she describes, in both charming and painful detail, her continuing war against multiple sclerosis. [BBC] Steven Erlanger, chief diplomatic correspondentThis ambitious article  analyzes the oldest (and to me, most important) form of human communication: storytelling. And it nearly forensically describes how stories affect people, offering the prospect of using narrative to help address fundamental issues like climate change and building community. [Stanford Social Innovation Review] Meagan Lopez, global digital business director The U.S. carried out its first drone strike against Qaeda militants in southern Libya, signaling a possible expansion of the American counterterrorism campaign in North Africa. At least 64 people  were killed in a fire at a shopping mall in Siberia. Carles Puigdemont, the former leader of Catalonia wanted in Spain on rebellion charges, was detained in Germany on an international arrest warrant. Qantas Airways completed its first nonstop flight from Australia to Britain, covering about 9,000 miles in just over 17 hours. Do you believe? The No. 11-seeded Loyola of Chicago, inspired by the teams 98-year-old chaplain, Sister Jean, will join Kansas, Michigan and Villanova in the Final Four of the N.C.A.A. mens basketball tournament.On the womens side, two No. 1 seeds, Louisville and Mississippi State, reached the Final Four. The other two teams will be decided tonight. Pacific Rim Uprising  unseated Black Panther at the top of the North American box office. An Angels that soarsSometimes, just when you need it most, a play courses into your system like a transfusion of new blood.A London-born revival of Tony Kushners Angels in America pulses with spirit, our co-chief theater critic writes. Quotation of the dayHe is looking for the guy who can say, I know how to handle Mueller. I know you think he is bad, and well take care of it. Problem is, you cant find that lawyer, because no one will be able to do that. Roger Cossack, a longtime legal analyst, on President Trumps struggles to find and keep lawyers. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Last week, the Library of Congress in Washington announced its annual additions to the National Recording Registry, which honors significant pieces of American history and culture. (Heres the list.)Wed like to look at one: the original 1930 recording of Lamento Borincano, by Canario y Su Grupo.Known as an unofficial anthem of Puerto Rico, Lamento Borincano was composed by Rafael Hernndez, one of the islands most renowned and prolific songwriters (although he wrote it while living in New York City).The title refers to Borinquen, a derivation of Puerto Ricos indigenous name.The song reflects the plight of Puerto Rican farmers during the Great Depression. They faced not only the threat of hurricanes but also the economic changes brought after 1917, when Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship, leading to a wave of emigration.The lyrics tell of a farmer who is loco de contento (crazy with happiness) at the prospect of selling his produce in town. But he arrives to find the town empty. With no one to buy anything, he returns to his farm demoralized. The song ends:_____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
CAIRO   Egyptians began voting Monday in an election that virtually guaranteed another term for President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, who faced only a token opponent in balloting that resembled the referendums held by autocrats for decades before the Arab Spring briefly raised hopes of democratic change.El-Sissi\'s only challenger was Moussa Mustafa Moussa, a little-known politician who joined the race at the last minute to spare the government the embarrassment of a one-candidate election after several hopefuls were forced out or arrested.Authorities hope enough of Egypt\'s nearly 60 million eligible voters will participate in the three-day election to give it legitimacy. Local media, which are dominated by pro-government commentators, have portrayed voting as an obligation and the only way to prevent foreigners from sowing instability.Most polling places had only modest lines Monday, and some were empty for most of the day.Officials overseeing four polling centers in the greater Cairo area said turnout hovered around a lowly 7 percent by 6 p.m., three hours before their scheduled close for the day. They said they expected a dramatic increase on the final day Wednesday.El-Sissi, a general who led the 2013 military overthrow of Egypt\'s first freely elected president, the Islamist Mohammed Morsi, voted at a school in the Cairo suburb of Heliopolis as soon as the polls opened at 9 a.m. He made no comment before heading for a meeting with his campaign team.Moussa, who supported el-Sissi until he joined the race, made no effort to mount a challenge, and the president never mentioned him once in public.Replying to a reporter\'s question about his chances of winning, Moussa said: "It all depends on your prayers and your votes.""Today we want the people to come out and vote. ... It doesn\'t matter who wins as long as Egypt remains safe," he said after casting his ballot.Some potential candidates might have attracted a sizable protest vote, but they were all either arrested or intimidated into withdrawing, making this the least competitive election since the 2011 uprising that ousted longtime autocrat Hosni Mubarak.The vote came amid the harshest crackdown on dissent in Egypt\'s modern history, with thousands of Islamists as well as several prominent secular activists in jail. Unauthorized protests are banned, most critical voices in the local media have been silenced, and hundreds of websites, including those of independent media and rights groups, have been blocked."I am not participating in this show because we all know who will win the vote," said Ahmed, a gas station attendant in Cairo\'s twin city of Giza."Nobody dares to speak up anymore, and if I go out and protest, I will either be killed with a bullet or thrown in jail," said the 30-year-old, who asked that only his first name be used because of those fears.Local TV showed festive scenes outside some polling stations, with women and children waving flags, singing nationalistic songs and dancing.The national election commission reported a large turnout in Cairo, Alexandria and northern Sinai, the epicenter of an insurgency led by the Islamic State group, but gave no figures. Pro-government media dubbed the vote a "democratic feast."A shopkeeper in downtown dismissed the election, saying the world was laughing at Egypt.Added a young man named Ahmed, who was smoking a water pipe at a caf in central Cairo: "I\'m not lazy or apathetic. I\'m intentionally skipping this one."Both asked that their full names not be used, fearing reprisals.Tens of thousands of police and soldiers were deployed for the vote. Authorities said Sunday that police had killed six militants believed to be involved in a weekend bombing in the coastal city of Alexandria in which two policemen died.Retired engineer Mohammed Ibrahim Ali patiently waited for the polls to open in Cairo\'s bustling Sayda Zeinab neighborhood, home to a famous Islamic shrine."Even if there are 1,000 candidates, we will vote for el-Sissi," he said, struggling to be heard over patriotic songs blaring from speakers. "He is the one who makes life great here."Ahmed Abdel-Atti, a 58-year-old doorman in the same neighborhood, voiced skepticism."Do you see any other candidates?" he asked.El-Sissi opted for carefully scripted televised appearances during the campaign. He donned military fatigues on recent occasions, highlighting the war on Islamic extremists and his past career as an army general.Many Egyptians had welcomed the military overthrow of Morsi, whose divisive rule had brought mass protests, and the subsequent crackdown on the Brotherhood. For a time, el-Sissi enjoyed a wave of popular support bordering on hysteria, but that aura has faded in the last four years.In the Sinai Peninsula, the insurgency that gained strength after Morsi\'s overthrow has only grown more ferocious, with regular attacks on security forces and deadly church bombings. An assault on a mosque in November killed more than 300 people, the worst such attack in Egypt\'s modern history.Meanwhile, the government has enacted a series of long-overdue economic reforms, including painful subsidy cuts and the floatation of the currency. That improved the investment climate and earned Egypt a $12 billion bailout loan from the International Monetary Fund. But the austerity measures sent prices soaring, exacting a heavy toll on ordinary Egyptians."I was a wholehearted (el-Sissi) supporter, but not anymore," said a man who recently lost his job in a telecommunications company and now works at a Cairo gas station. "Yes, there are big projects, but he takes from us, the poor, not from them, the rich. We are the people who are living day to day."He also asked that his full name not be used, fearing trouble from authorities.Khaled Abdel-Lateef, who sells fresh juice in downtown Cairo, struck an upbeat note, saying authorities need more time."We need to be patient," he said. "The good things will come. At the very least, we have security."
MOSCOW  The expulsion of scores of Russian diplomats from the United States, countries across Europe and beyond has raised, yet again, the question of whether the world is veering back where it was during the Cold War. The alarming answer from some in Russia is: No, but the situation is in some ways even more unpredictable.For all the tension, proxy conflicts and risk of nuclear war that punctuated relations between Moscow and the West for decades, each side knew, particularly toward the end of the Cold War and collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, roughly what to expect. Each had a modicum of trust that the other would act in a reasonably predictable way.The volatile state of Russias relations with the outside world today, exacerbated by a nerve agent attack on a former spy living in Britain, however, makes the diplomatic climate of the Cold War look reassuring, said Ivan I. Kurilla, an expert on Russian-American relations, and recalls a period of paralyzing mistrust that followed the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution.If you look for similarities with what is happening, it is not the Cold War that can explain events but Russias first revolutionary regime, which regularly assassinated opponents abroad, said Mr. Kurilla, a historian at the European University at St. Petersburg.He said that Russias president, Vladimir V. Putin, had no interest in spreading a new ideology and fomenting world revolution, unlike the early Bolsheviks, but that Russia under Mr. Putin had become a revolutionary regime in terms of international relations.From the Kremlins perspective, it is the United States that first upended previous norms, when President George W. Bush withdrew the United States from the Antiballistic Missile accord, an important Cold War-era treaty, in 2002.Russia, Mr. Kurilla said, does not like the rules of the American-dominated order that have prevailed since then, and wants to change them.One rule that Russia has consistently embraced, however, is the principle of reciprocity, and the Kremlin made clear on Monday that it would, after assessing the scale of the damage to its diplomat corps overseas, respond with expulsions of Western diplomats from Russia.The Russian Parliament also weighed in, with the deputy head of its foreign affairs committee, Aleksei Chepa, telling the Interfax news agency that Russia would not bow to the Wests diplomatic war. Russia, he said, will not allow itself to be beaten up, the harder they try to intimidate us, the tougher our response will be.When Britain expelled 23 Russian diplomats this month in response to the nerve agent attack in Salisbury, England, Moscow not only evicted an equal number of British diplomats, but ordered the closing of the British Council, an organization that promotes British culture and language.While denying any part in the March 4 poisoning of Sergei V. Skripal, a former spy, and his daughter, Yulia, both still critically ill in the hospital, Russia in recent years has built up a long record of flouting international norms, notably with its 2014 annexation of Crimea, the first time since 1945 that European borders have been redrawn by force.The attack on the Skripals was another first, at least according to Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, who denounced the action as the first offensive use of a nerve agent in Europe since the Second World War.Kadri Liik, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said she was mystified by the nerve agent attack. Ms. Liik said she had expected Mr. Putin, who won a fourth term by a lopsided margin on March 18, to back away from disruption during what, under the Constitution, should be his last six years in power.Mr. Putin, she said, might not be predictable but usually follows what he considers fairly clear logic. Putin does not do disruption just for fun, but because he is Putin and he can, she said.Each time Russia has been accused of having a hand in acts like the seizure of Ukrainian government buildings in Crimea or the 2014 shooting down of a Malaysian passenger plane over eastern Ukraine, in which nearly 300 people were killed, Moscow has responded with a mix of self-pity, fierce denials and florid conspiracy theories that put the blame elsewhere.In the case of the poisoning in Salisbury, Russias denials became so baroque that even the state-run news media had a hard time keeping up.After officials denied any Russian role and insisted that neither Russia nor the Soviet Union had ever developed Novichok, the nerve agent identified by Britain as the substance used against the Skripals, a state-controlled news agency published an interview with a Russian scientist who said he had helped develop a system of chemical weapons called Novichok-5. The agency later amended the article, replacing the scientists mention of Novichok with an assertion that the chemical weapons development program of the U.S.S.R. was not called Novichok.The attempted murder of Mr. Skripal on British soil, however, was the straw that broke the camels back, said Vladislav Inozemtsev, a Russian scholar at the Polish Institute of Advanced Studies in Warsaw. Western leaders finally decided that enough is enough because Moscow has played the denial game so many times and showed no real interest in establishing the truth, he said.Unlike Soviet leaders during the Cold War, he added, Mr. Putin follows no fixed ideology or rules but is ready to pursue any predatory policies, no matter how taboo, that might help undermine the existing order in Europe, while insisting that Russia is the victim, not the aggressor.When the United Nations in 2015 proposed an international tribunal to investigate the MH-17 air disaster a year earlier over territory held by Russian-armed rebels in eastern Ukraine, Moscow used its veto in the United Nations Security Council to block the move, the only member of the Council to oppose the investigation.Ian Bond, a former British diplomat in Moscow who is now director of foreign policy at the Center for European Reform in London, said Russias often implausible denials had made it like the boy who cried wolf.If you keep putting forward crazy conspiracy theories, eventually people are going to ask whether what you are saying is just another crazy Russian denial, he said.Mr. Bond said diplomacy during the Cold War, even when it involved hostile actions, tended to follow a relatively a calm and orderly routine. No longer is that the case, he added, noting that the Russian Embassy in London and the Foreign Ministry in Moscow have issued statements and tweets mocking Britain as an impotent has-been power and scoffing at the Salisbury poisoning as the so-called Sergei Skripal case.President Putin, Mr. Bond added, is not trying to foment international revolution, but he is the great disrupter and revels in wrong-footing foreign governments by flouting established norms.While Russia may have been surprised by the magnitude of the coordinated expulsions by Britains allies on Monday, it was clearly anticipating something. Hours before they were announced, it went on the offensive.Russias Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, posted a message on Facebook sneering at the European Union for showing solidarity with Britain at a time when London is negotiating its exit from the bloc. Britain, she wrote, is exploiting the solidarity factor to impose on those that are remaining a deterioration in relations with Russia.While President Trump has expressed a curious affinity with Mr. Putin and raised expectations of improved relations, the Russian leader has always been more measured. The underlying mistrust seemed to be reinforced on Monday by Russias ambassador in Washington, Anatoly Antonov, who told the Interfax news agency that what the United States of America is doing today is destroying whatever little is left in Russian-U.S. relations.Despite the unpredictability under Mr. Putin, the possibility of nuclear conflict between the Russians and the West, the most frightening aspect of the Cold War, does not appear to have increased. Arms control agreements reached since the 1970s are still honored  with the exception of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile accord, known as the ABM Treaty, which Mr. Bush abandoned 30 years later.Mr. Bushs decision, questioned by even some American allies, opened the way, in Moscows view, to a free-for-all in international relations that has left the United States and Russia struggling to recover the trust developed by President Ronald Reagan and the last Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, in the 1980s.In a state of the nation address in February, President Putin unveiled what he described as a new generation of invincible long-range nuclear missiles but, speaking later in an interview with NBC, he blamed Washington for pushing Moscow into a new arms race by disregarding a Cold War status quo.If you speak about the arms race, it started when the U.S. withdrew from the ABM Treaty, he said.Confronted with Moscows disruptive actions in the 1920s, Britain and other European countries did not know how to respond and took 10 years or more to figure out how to deal with Moscow, said Mr. Kurilla, the St. Petersburg historian.In the case of Britain, the leading power of the day and the first Western country to recognize the Soviet Union, the process had echoes of the present. It recognized the new Bolshevik government in 1924 but then expelled Soviet diplomats and shuttered their embassy three years later after the police uncovered what they said was a Soviet espionage ring bent on spreading mayhem.
