A conversation with the oceanographer Sylvia Earle. Also this week: We ask automakers about climate science, and forecasters look forward to spring.
There were no test tubes or Bunsen burners, but a courtroom turned into a science classroom Wednesday for a U.S. judge considering lawsuits that accuse big oil companies of lying about the role of fossil fuels in the Earth's warming environment.
The Latest on a tutorial on climate change before a federal judge in San Francisco (all times local):
A Chevron attorney said in court on Wednesday that the company supports scientific conclusions that humans are causing climate change, a response to a lawsuit that accuses five major energy producers of misleading the public for years about their ...
Anheuser-Busch InBev, the world's biggest brewer, said on Wednesday it would cut its greenhouse gas emissions by a quarter by 2025 and help thousands of farmers cope with disruptions to water supplies stoked by global warming.
Two of the nation's prominent Republicans on Wednesday envisioned a future for the GOP far removed from President Donald Trump's Twitter blasts, where inclusiveness, a kinder tone and a willingness to work with Democrats on immigration and climate...
German conglomerate Bayer won EU antitrust approval on Wednesday for its $62.5 billion buy of U.S. peer Monsanto, the latest in a trio of mega mergers that will reshape the agrochemicals industry.
Researchers introduced SoFi, a soft robotic fish that can be operated underwater with a souped up Super Nintendo controller.
In the Jakarta headquarters of the Indonesian Solidarity Party (PSI), workers call each other "bro" and "sis", and their leader sets the sartorial standard with a pair of ripped jeans.
A top State Department official said American policy would “ensure that Taiwan’s people can continue along their chosen path, free from coercion.”
Kate Brandis, an Australian researcher, has enlisted the public to help her track elusive waterfowl as the country’s wetlands disappear.
