Declines in coal power plant construction in China, India and the U.S. are projected to push the heavily-polluting fuel over the edge&#8212; but not fast enough to meet international climate change goals, environmental groups said Wednesday.
Global energy-related carbon emissions rose to a historic high of 32.5 gigatons last year, after three years of being flat, due to higher energy demand and the slowing of energy efficiency improvements, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said.
The effects of global warming can be seen and touched in Louisiana, where officials have begun buying higher ground to relocate an entire town in a bayou being swallowed by higher seas.
Norway said on Thursday it wants to buy electric passenger planes in the coming years to help slow climate change, building on its success with big tax breaks that have made it the world leader in electric car sales.
Best Buy Co Inc, the largest U.S. consumer electronics retailer, will cut ties with China's Huawei Technologies Co Ltd, a person familiar with the matter said, amid heightened scrutiny on Chinese tech firms in the United States.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres put a spotlight on the global water crisis on World Water Day, saying Thursday that over 2 billion people lack access to safe water and more than 3 billion are affected by the scarcity of water.
The world needs to reduce emissions to avoid drastic global warming. For now, a new study shows, we’re moving in the opposite direction.
Rio Tinto is to sell its 75 percent stake in a Queensland project to Australia's Whitehaven Coal for $200 million, in its second deal this week to shed coal assets.
Hawks, vultures and storks circle overhead as Christopher Sveen points at the heap of refuse rotting in the desert heat. "This is the mine of the future," he beams.
Americans used to be full of hope. No longer.
Anti-graft prosecutors in Peru on Wednesday asked a judge to bar President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski from leaving the South American country hours after he announced his resignation in the face of near-certain impeachment, a judiciary source told Reut...
Spring has already arrived for many parts of the United States.
Our guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.
At the American Museum of Natural History, “Unseen Oceans” shines a light on the animals that call the ocean home and the humans who study them.
In some of the world’s most extreme and dangerous environments she hunts for organisms that live in conditions like those on the red planet.
With the National Assembly firmly in his pocket, France’s president has had almost unchecked authority to carry out his agenda.
