KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia   Malaysia\'s government proposed new legislation Monday to outlaw fake news and punish offenders with a 10-year jail sentence, a move slammed as an attempt to silence dissent ahead of a general election.Prime Minister Najib Razak has been dogged by a multibillion-dollar corruption scandal involving an indebted state fund, and rights activists fear the new law could be used to criminalize news reports and critical opinions on government misconduct. A general election must be held by August but is widely expected in the next few weeks.The anti-fake news bill, which must be approved by parliament, calls for penalizing those who create, offer, circulate, print or publish fake news or publications containing fake news with a 10-year jail term, a fine of up to 500,000 ringgit ($128,000) or both.The bill defines fake news as "any news, information, data and reports which is, or are, wholly or partly false whether in the form of features, visuals or audio recordings or in any other form capable of suggesting words or ideas." It covers all media and extends to even foreigners outside Malaysia as long as Malaysia or its citizens are affected."This is an attack on the press and an attempt to instill fear among the (people)" before the general election, opposition lawmaker Ong Kian Ming tweeted.Government officials have said the law is needed to protect public harmony and national security. They have accused the opposition coalition of using fake news as a key weapon to win votes and warned that any news on the indebted 1MDB state fund that had not been verified by the government is fake.The U.S. and several other countries are investigating allegations of cross-border embezzlement and money laundering at 1MDB, which was set up and previously led by Najib to promote economic development, but which accumulated billions in debt. The U.S. Justice Department says at least $4.5 billion was stolen from 1MDB by associates of Najib, and it is working to seize $1.7 billion taken from the fund to buy assets in the U.S., potentially its largest asset seizure ever.Najib, who denies any wrongdoing, has fired critics in his government and muzzled the media since the corruption scandal erupted three years ago.Support for Najib\'s ruling coalition has dwindled in the last two elections. In 2013, it lost the popular vote for the first time to the opposition. Yet analysts say Najib is expected to win a third term due to infighting in the opposition, unfavorable electoral boundary changes and strong support for the government among rural ethnic Malays.Critics say the anti-fake news bill will add to a range of repressive laws  including a sedition law, a press and publications act, an official secrets act and a security act  that have been used against critics, violated freedom of expression and undermined media freedom. A coalition of human rights and civic groups also has expressed concern that the government is rushing through the legislation, without consulting key stakeholders and releasing details in advance for public scrutiny."Malaysia has a long and troubling track record of using its legal books to silence dissent," James Gomez, Amnesty International\'s director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, said in a statement. "It is no coincidence that this law has been tabled with general elections just around the corner. We are already seeing how the government is closing the space for public debate ahead of the polls."Other Southeast Asian countries, including Singapore and the Philippines, have also proposed laws to clamp down on fake news.
The following statementswere posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own.Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- The economy is looking really good. It has been many years that we have seen these kind of numbers. The underlying strength of companies has perhaps never been better. [0705 EDT]- So much Fake News. Never been more voluminous or more inaccurate. But through it all, our country is doing great! [0840 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)
WASHINGTON   A doctored animation and photo have surfaced online appearing to show one of the survivors of the Florida high school shooting tearing up the U.S. Constitution.The image of Emma Gonzalez was doctored from a March 23 "Teen Vogue" story in which she ripped up a shooting range target. The publication\'s editors pointed out the fake image on Twitter.The doctored animation and news stories about it were shared nearly 70,000 times on social media.Supporters of the Second Amendment pointed to the image as evidence that gun control supporters are going too far.Gun control supporters expressed outrage when the image was shown to be fake.Gonzalez spoke with other Parkland, Florida, students on Saturday at a protest in Washington to demand action on gun control.
KUALA LUMPUR   Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak\'s government tabled a bill in parliament on Monday outlawing "fake news", with hefty fines and up to 10 years in jail, raising more concern about media freedom in the wake of a multi-billion dollar graft scandal.The bill was tabled ahead of a general election that is expected to be called within weeks and as Najib faces widespread criticism over the scandal at state fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB).Under the Anti-Fake News 2018 bill, anyone who publishes so-called fake news could face fines of up to 500,000 ringgit ($128,140), up to 10 years in jail, or both."The proposed Act seeks to safeguard the public against the proliferation of fake news whilst ensuring the right to freedom of speech and expression under the Federal Constitution is respected," the government said in the bill.The government defined fake news as "news, information, data and reports which is or are wholly or partly false" and included features, visuals and audio recordings.The law, which covers digital publications and social media, would apply to offenders outside Malaysia, including foreigners, if Malaysia or a Malaysian citizen were affected.The government said in the bill it was hoped the public would be more responsible and cautious in sharing news and information.Opposition lawmakers have questioned the need for such a law, arguing that the government already had broad powers over free speech and the media."This is an attack on the press and an attempt to instill fear among the rakyat (people) before GE14," opposition lawmaker Ong Kian Ming said on Twitter after the bill was tabled, using a Malaysian term for this year\'s election.Parliament, where the government has a comfortable majority, is expected to vote on the bill this week.U.S. President Donald Trump popularized the term "fake news", which he used to describe media reports and organizations critical of him.The term quickly became part of the standard repertoire of leaders in authoritarian countries such as Venezuela and Myanmar.Governments elsewhere in Southeast Asia, including Singapore and the Philippines, have also proposed laws aimed at clamping down on the spread of "fake news", to the dismay of media rights advocates.\'UNQUESTIONABLE POWER\'Human rights group Amnesty International called for the bill to be scrapped immediately."The vague and broad definition of \'fake news\', combined with severe punishments and arbitrary arrest powers for police, shows that this is nothing but a blatant attempt to shield the government from peaceful criticism," the group\'s director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, James Gomez, said in a statement.Malaysia\'s National Union of Journalists said the bill could easily be abused to stifle the media, as it would give the government "unquestionable power" to remove articles deemed prejudicial to public order or national security.The 1MDB scandal, exposed by foreign media and news blogs in 2015, refuses to die down despite Najib\'s consistent denials of any wrongdoing and his government\'s firm grip on Malaysia\'s state-owned mainstream media.Transactions related to 1MDB are under investigation in six countries including the United States, where the Department of Justice has launched civil cases to recover assets linked to the fund after investigations under an anti-kleptocracy initiative.The Malaysian government has acted harshly against media reporting on 1MDB. It suspended one newspaper, The Edge, in 2015 and blocked websites for publishing stories critical of Najib\'s role.A deputy minister was quoted in Malaysian media last week as saying that any news on 1MDB that had not been verified by the government was "fake".(Adds dropped word "to" in headline.)(Reporting by Rozanna Latiff and Joseph Sipalan; Editing by Paul Tait and Robert Birsel)
TOKYO   Prime Minister Shinzo Abe wants to repeal a Japanese law requiring broadcasters to show impartiality, a step critics fear will lead to sensational reporting and polarize views, just as a similar move has been blamed for doing in the United States.Abe\'s government has drafted changes to Japan\'s broadcast law and plans to include them in reform proposals as early as May, laying the groundwork for future legislation, three government sources told Reuters.The sources, who asked for anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter, said the draft includes repealing the law\'s article 4, which requires license holders to show contrasting political views and is considered Japan\'s version of the U.S. Fairness Doctrine.The U.S. Federal Communications Commission decided to repeal the doctrine in 1987 after criticism that it restricted broadcasters\' freedom. The move, finalised in 2011, is widely credited with helping give rise to politically charged radio talk shows and news programs."Without having these safeguards, media outlets become more susceptible to market forces,"  said Victor Pickard, associate professor of communication at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. "The U.S. could serve as a cautionary tale."SUPPORT FOR ABE FALLINGAbe has said he wants to overhaul the broadcast law to put traditional television channels on equal footing with online media, which are not restricted by article 4. The law does not apply to print media.In a parliament session in February, he cited his appearance on AbemaTV, a livestreaming service operated by Internet advertising agency CyberAgent and TV Asahi that despite its name has no financial or other links to Abe. During his appearance, he was allowed to air his views without the need for contrasting views to be presented."As the division between traditional and digital media become meaningless, we should make for bold revisions to broadcast businesses to make the best use of airwaves, which are a public asset," Abe said.But critics see it as a more sinister move, saying Abe wants to stack airwaves with pro-government messaging to bolster his popularity and push through a controversial revision of Japan\'s pacifist constitution. He is facing pressure over a suspected cover-up of a cronyism scandal, which could dash his hopes of winning a third three-year term in a leadership election in September."What Prime Minister Abe wants to do is to advertise his views," said lawmaker Soichiro Okuno from the opposition Party of Hope.Television is still a popular and trusted medium in Japan; there is one public broadcaster, NHK. Government data shows the average household spends 168 minutes watching TV per week day, compared with less than 100 minutes online and 10 minutes reading newspapers.The same survey showed that 70 percent of people believed information in newspapers to be trustworthy, and 66 percent rated television trustworthy. Around 34 percent thought the Internet was a credible source of information.FAIRNESS DOCTRINEConservative politicians have used the broadcast law in recent years to criticize television broadcasters as biased against them.Sanae Takaichi, a member of Abe\'s conservative Liberal Democratic Party and former minister of internal affairs and communications, said in 2016 that television stations could be shut down if they repeatedly showed political bias.Reporters Without Borders has criticized Abe\'s government for passing a tough secrecy act that critics have said could muzzle media. Japan ranks number 72 in its World Press Freedom Index, behind Malawi and Hungary.The resignation of some high-profile news readers known for taking a critical look at Abe\'s policies in recent years has raised speculation that broadcasters were bowing to pressure from politicians."We have a bit of a twisted situation... You have a government that\'s saying, \'Here\'s more freedom, let\'s do away with this restriction,\'" said Kozo Nagata, who teaches media and sociology studies at Musashi University."But you cannot just tweak article 4 without understanding the history behind the law," he said, referring to its original aim of preventing media from being used as a propaganda machine.Most broadcasters have opposed the move."Now that dealing with \'fake news\' is becoming a common social issue all around the world, the role of media in providing balanced information is greater than ever," said Hiroshi Inoue, chairman of The Japan Commercial Broadcasters Association and honorary chairman of TBS Holdings, which owns a major commercial TV channel.(Reporting by Yoshiyasu Shida and Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
PRAGUE   Czech President Milos Zeman has ordered the country\'s counter-intelligence service to see if the type of nerve agent used in an attack in Britain could have been made in the Czech Republic.Zeman\'s request followed strong government rebuttals of Russian allegations that the nerve agent could have come from the Czech Republic, among other countries.The Czech Republic joined the United States and governments across Europe to expel more than 100 Russian diplomats on Monday in response to the nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury on March 4. Skripal, 66, and his 33-year-old daughter Yulia remain critically ill in hospital.Zeman\'s request to look into whether the Czechs produced the nerve agent Novichok was announced by his spokesman after the president met the head of the BIS counter-intelligence service."The president has tasked the BIS to find out whether or not the nerve gas \'Novichok\' was developed or stored on the Czech Republic\'s territory, be it at industrial or scientific facilities," Zeman\'s spokesman said in a statement.The spokesman later said on Twitter, in reaction to a news website headline that interpreted the decision as siding with Russia: "Fake news. The tasking of BIS is a reaction to Russia\'s repeated allegations against the Czech Republic."Zeman has often taken pro-Russian positions in the past.Under the Czech constitution, the government is in charge of foreign policy but the president wields certain powers as well as the ability to ask the BIS to carry out tasks.Commenting on the expulsion of three Russian diplomats, Prime Minister Andrej Babis said it was in solidarity with Britain and he denied Moscow\'s suggestion the nerve agent could have originated in the Czech Republic."The Russians breached all boundaries when they said the poisonous substance Novichok may have come from us, that is a total lie, we have rejected this assertion right from the start when the Russian side put it out."The government\'s spokeswoman had no immediate comment on Zeman\'s request for the counter-intelligence service to investigate the claim.(Reporting by Jan Lopatka; Editing by Michael Kahn and Robin Pomeroy)
NEW YORK   The leader of a secretive group in upstate New York turned female followers into brainwashed "slaves" who were branded with his initials and coerced into having sex, authorities alleged on Monday in a criminal complaint charging him with sex-trafficking.Keith Raniere, co-founder of the group called Nxivm, was arrested in Mexico and returned to Texas Monday, authorities said. He was to appear in court on Tuesday in Fort Worth on the charges filed by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn.According to the complaint, Raniere  known within the group as "Vanguard"  oversaw a barbaric system in which women were told the best way to advance was to become a "slave" overseen by "masters." They also were expected to have sex with him and do menial chores for masters, and to keep the arrangement a secret or be publicly humiliated, the complaint says.The name of Raniere\'s attorney wasn\'t immediately available on Monday. In a letter attributed to Raniere previously posted on a website related to Nxivm, he denied the practices were sanctioned by the self-described self-help group."These allegations are most disturbing to me as non-violence is one of my most important values," the letter said.The complaint said that many victims participated in videotaped ceremonies where they were branded in their pelvic area with a symbol featuring Raniere\'s initials."During the branding ceremonies, slaves were required to be fully naked, and the master would order one slave to film while the other held down the slave being branded," the complaint says.Investigators said Raniere preferred exceptionally thin women, so "slaves" had to stick to very low-calorie diets and document every food they ate. As punishment for not following orders, women were forced to attend classes where they were "forced to wear fake cow udders over their breasts while people called them derogatory names," or threatened with being put in cages, court papers say.Raniere left the United States late last year after The New York Times reported the stories of some women who defected from their secret sorority and the government began interviewing potential witnesses. He sought to cover this trail by using encrypted email and ditching his phone, court papers say.He was ultimately found staying with several women in a luxury gated community in Puerta Vallarta where villas can run $10,000 a week to rent, investigators say. After authorities took him into custody on a U.S. warrant, investigators said the women got into a high-speed car chase.The website related to the group describes Raniere as a "scientist, mathematician, philosopher, entrepreneur, educator, inventor and author" who has "devoted his life to studying the human psychodynamic and developing new tools for human empowerment, expression and ethics."Nxivm\'s Mexican affiliate is headed by Emiliano Salinas, a son of that country\'s former president. Several women who belong to the group in Mexico have traveled to Albany, where they were branded, two former Nxivm members told the Times.Salinas has also denied that the sorority is affiliated with Nxivm.Raniere and Nxivm have been the subject of criticism for years, dating back to at least 2012 when the Times Union of Albany published a series of articles examining the organization and allegations that it was like a cult.Over the years, Nxivm has attracted a following that includes Emmy Award-winning actress Allison Mack. Authorities also say Raniere has been bankrolled by Clare Bronfman, an heiress to the Seagram\'s liquor fortune.Bronfman gave millions of dollars covering expenses like private air travel costing $65,000 flight, court papers say.
MEXICO CITY   Mexico\'s navy said Monday that a helicopter called in to support marines after they were ambushed in the border city of Nuevo Laredo didn\'t kill the bystanders who died.The navy did not say how many civilians died during clashes, but local media reported Monday that a mother and two children were killed.The navy said in a statement that the bystanders were hit from the ground  not the air  and their wounds were caused by a type of bullet not used by the helicopter crew.The operations in Nuevo Laredo, across the border from Laredo, Texas, left a marine and four suspected gunmen dead and 12 marines wounded.The Tamaulipas state government did not respond to requests for information on the civilians killed. It only said that it "expressed its unqualified support for the Navy in its security operations in the state" and sent condolences "to the victims" in the shootouts.Gun battles late Saturday and early Sunday illustrate the level of drug gang violence in Nuevo Laredo, a city dominated by the Northeast Cartel, an offshoot of the Zetas cartel.Authorities said marines were ambushed three separate times.Marines returned fire and killed one gunman in the first attack, but suffered three wounded.Another patrol was sent to help the wounded when it also came under fire; that ambush killed one marine and wounded several others.A third patrol was ambushed just outside the marine base as it responded to the first two attacks. In that shootout, three gunmen were killed.Finally, a helicopter gunship was called in.Mexico\'s navy said in a statement that the gunmen had fake marine uniforms and markings on their vehicles.
WASHINGTON  After 61 weeks in the White House, President Trump has found two people he wont attack on Twitter: Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal.The verbose commander in chief has posted more than 2,900 times on Twitter since taking office, using the term FAKE NEWS to describe everything from the Russia inquiry and allegations of chaos in the White House to harassment accusations, the size of his inaugural crowds and heated arguments with world leaders.But he has been uncharacteristically silent in recent days  to the relief of his advisers  as a pornographic film star and a Playboy model described intimate details of sexual encounters with Mr. Trump. Stephanie Clifford, known in pornographic films as Stormy Daniels, said Sunday night on CBSs 60 Minutes that she once spanked the president with a copy of Forbes magazine bearing his face on the cover.The fact that the president has not given oxygen to the headlines, however, does not mean that he is content.Inside the White House, Mr. Trump is eager to defend himself against allegations that he insists are false, those close to him say. And he is growing increasingly frustrated with breathless, wall-to-wall news media coverage of the salacious details from the two women.On Monday, Ms. Cliffords lawyer added new charges to the suit she filed: that the presidents lawyer defamed Ms. Clifford in denying her claims; that he and Mr. Trump pursued the deal to specifically help Mr. Trumps election prospects; and that he then structured the agreement to shield from public view what was, effectively, an illegal $130,000 campaign gift.In discussions with allies and some aides, Mr. Trump has privately railed against Ms. Clifford, and insisted that she is not telling the truth. He has reminded advisers that he joined an effort to enforce financial penalties against Ms. Clifford, whose TV interview on Sunday night was hyped throughout the weekend on the cable news channels that Mr. Trump watches obsessively.But there has been no debate among Mr. Trumps advisers about the best course for him: just keep quiet about a story that would only be fueled by a presidential tweet or a comment about the women shouted above the roar of Marine One.Keeping a lid on Mr. Trump is never easy, especially when he is eager to hit back at his adversaries.In the days after an Access Hollywood video exposed his own lewd comments about women during the final month of the campaign, Mr. Trump responded by showing up at his debate with Hillary Clinton with three women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexual improprieties.As a candidate, and as president, Mr. Trump has eagerly attacked just about all of his enemies and accusers, often with colorful nicknames like Little Rocket Man for the North Korean leader, Crazy Joe Biden or Sloppy Steve Bannon.But for now, it appears that the president is listening to  and accepting  his advisers warnings on the dangers of speaking out about the women, much the way he followed the advice of his lawyers for a year not to attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel in the Russia inquiry.Recently, he has ditched that advice, attacking Mr. Mueller and his team directly on Twitter. That leaves only his alleged mistresses and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as people who are immune to Mr. Trumps Twitter trash-talk.Raj Shah, a deputy White House press secretary, declined to say what the president may or may not have seen on television Sunday night, though he said that Mr. Trump denies the allegations that Ms. Clifford made in the CBS interview.Ill just say that hes consistently denied these allegations, Mr. Shah said. The president doesnt believe that any of the claims that Ms. Daniels made last night in the interview are accurate.Mr. Trump dined at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida on Saturday evening with Michael D. Cohen, his lawyer and longtime aide who is at the center of the Clifford scandal, according to three people familiar with the get-together. The president scheduled the meeting himself, surprising his aides with it a short time before Mr. Cohen arrived, people familiar with the meeting said.Melania Trump, too, has been silent about the allegations. Asked to react to the interviews, Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trumps spokeswoman, said: Shes focusing on being a mother, shes quite enjoying her spring break and shes focused on future projects.It is not clear whether Mr. Trump watched a similar tell-all interview on CNN on Thursday evening, when Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, alleged a 10-month romantic affair with Mr. Trump in which they repeatedly had sex.Sundays interview with Ms. Clifford contained few surprises but some humiliating details, such as Ms. Clifford saying she was not attracted to Mr. Trump, and her recollection of spanking him. Virility and strength are key traits that the president likes to project, and he once gloated about a New York Post headline quoting a friend of his second wife, Marla Maples, who recalled Ms. Maples saying that Mr. Trump was the Best Sex Ive Ever Had.In the interview, Ms. Clifford said that she had flirted with Mr. Trump in 2006 at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe. She said Mr. Trump had compared her favorably to his daughter during the flirtation, and that she had intercourse with Mr. Trump.She also alleged that an unknown person whom she believed to be connected to Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen threatened her in a parking lot in 2011, telling her, leave Trump alone. Forget the story. Then looking at her infant daughter, he added, Thats a beautiful little girl. It would be a shame if something happened to her mom.Asked by Anderson Cooper whether she had anything to say to Mr. Trump, if he was watching Sunday night, Ms. Clifford said, He knows Im telling the truth.Even that has not prompted Mr. Trump to directly address the central allegations from Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal  that the president cheated on his wife shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son.Mr. Trump did type out a vague Fake News tweet on Monday morning, although it is unclear to what he was referring.Beyond the details of the alleged encounters, Mr. Trumps advisers have been urging the president to keep quiet about the legal wrangling concerning Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal.Ms. McDougal, who accepted $150,000 from the parent company of the National Enquirer to keep quiet about her alleged affair with Mr. Trump, is suing the company to be released from the contract. Mr. Cohen has acknowledged paying Ms. Clifford $130,000 in the days before the 2016 election to keep quiet about her allegations.Mr. Shah said at the White House on Monday that I can say categorically that, obviously, the White House didnt engage in any wrongdoing.Asked about why Mr. Trumps lawyer would pay Ms. Clifford $130,000 if her allegations were false, Mr. Shah said that false charges are settled out of court all the time. He referred further questions about the case to Mr. Cohen.The lawyer for Ms. Clifford has aggressively argued that his client is not bound by the nondisclosure agreement that she signed, in part because Mr. Trump himself never signed the document. Michael Avenatti, the lawyer, has repeatedly used Trumplike insinuations to suggest that Ms. Clifford has digital evidence of the intercourse.We have a litany of more evidence in this case, and its going to be disclosed, and its going to be laid bare for the American public, Mr. Avenatti said in an interview Monday morning on ABCs Good Morning America.Last week, Mr. Avenatti tweeted a picture of a CD or DVD with the suggestive caption: If a picture is worth a thousand words, how many words is this worth???? #60minutes #pleasedenyit #basta.Even that has not prompted a presidential retort  yet.
LONDON   The Australian ball-tampering scandal continues to ripple far beyond cricket circles, with captain Steve Smith portrayed as arch-villain in the sorry saga.A tide of moral outrage has flowed ever since Smith admitted conspiring to tamper with the ball during the third test against South Africa in Cape Town last week.Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull described it as a "shocking disappointment", sponsors of Australia\'s national sport are said to be reviewing their involvement and Smith has been banned for one test with his future as captain in serious doubt.It was even the lead story on BBC\'s News at Ten on Sunday.The good and the great of world cricket are queuing up to take pot shots at Smith and his senior players for what has been described as an act of cheating, though Australia still lost the match comfortably.The fallout has been extraordinary, considering those in numerous sports have found ways of pushing rules to and over the boundary without quite such widespread condemnation.Doping is regarded as one of the most unpalatable forms of cheating, but there are many other examples of sportsmen and women trying to gain an edge, from a soccer players diving to win penalties to tennis players taking well-timed \'toilet breaks\'.Some are more sophisticated, far more sophisticated than Australia\'s opening batsman Cameron Bancroft rubbing dust into a piece of sticky tape to create a rudimentary piece of sandpaper with which to work on the ball.\'BLOODGATE\'In European rugby in 2009 Harlequins winger Tom Williams bit into a fake blood capsule so he could go off with a \'blood injury\' and be replaced by specialist kicker Nick Evans in a Heineken Cup quarter-final against Leinster.Harlequins\' director of rugby at the time, Dean Richards, was banned from coaching in Europe for three years for his role in the so-called bloodgate controversy.Cycling has been scarred by the use of illegal drugs but it is not always what riders put in their bodies.Belgium\'s Femke Van Den Driessche was banned for six years after a motor was found in her bike at an under-23s world championship cyclo-cross race in 2016.Formula One motor racing also has a long record of teams trying to gain a less than sporting advantage, from illegal fuel, deliberate crashes and team orders. In 2007 McLaren was found guilty of stealing confidential data from rivals Ferrari and fined 50 million pounds ($71 million).In boxing, welterweight Antonio Margarito was banned for a year after a 2009 fight against Shane Mosley in which plaster of Paris, which could set like concrete, was found on his hand wraps inside his boxing gloves.Baseball, the game most closely associated with cricket in the United States, is no stranger to ball-tampering either.One of the favourite tricks of pitchers is to apply pine tar to the ball or change its surface with hidden sandpaper. Batters have been known to \'cork\' their bats for greater power.Golf, a sport with rules so draconian that players are often penalised for miniscule indiscretions, is not immune either, according to Vijay Singh\'s former caddie Kip Henley."Cheating happens almost every single round," Henley said last year in an interview with website Golf.com."If people think there\'s no cheating out there, they\'re crazy. Some of it\'s intentional, some of it\'s just ignorance."(Reporting by Martyn Herman; Editing by David Goodman)
MEXICO CITY   Mexico\'s navy said Monday that a helicopter called in to support marines after they were ambushed in the border city of Nuevo Laredo didn\'t kill the bystanders who died.The navy did not say how many civilians died during clashes, but local media reported Monday that a mother and two children were killed.The navy said in a statement that the bystanders were hit from the ground  not the air  and their wounds were caused by a type of bullet not used by the helicopter crew.The operations in Nuevo Laredo, across the border from Laredo, Texas, left a marine and four suspected gunmen dead and 12 marines wounded.The Tamaulipas state government did not respond to requests for information on the civilians killed. It only said that it "expressed its unqualified support for the Navy in its security operations in the state" and sent condolences "to the victims" in the shootouts.Gun battles late Saturday and early Sunday illustrate the level of drug gang violence in Nuevo Laredo, a city dominated by the Northeast Cartel, an offshoot of the Zetas cartel.Authorities said marines were ambushed three separate times.Marines returned fire and killed one gunman in the first attack, but suffered three wounded.Another patrol was sent to help the wounded when it also came under fire; that ambush killed one marine and wounded several others.A third patrol was ambushed just outside the marine base as it responded to the first two attacks. In that shootout, three gunmen were killed.Finally, a helicopter gunship was called in.Mexico\'s navy said in a statement that the gunmen had fake marine uniforms and markings on their vehicles.
WASHINGTON  After 61 weeks in the White House, President Trump has found two people he wont attack on Twitter: Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal.The verbose commander in chief has posted more than 2,900 times on Twitter since taking office, using the term FAKE NEWS to describe everything from the Russia inquiry and allegations of chaos in the White House to harassment accusations, the size of his inaugural crowds and heated arguments with world leaders.But he has been uncharacteristically silent in recent days  to the relief of his advisers  as a pornographic film star and a Playboy model described intimate details of sexual encounters with Mr. Trump. Stephanie Clifford, known in pornographic films as Stormy Daniels, said Sunday night on CBSs 60 Minutes that she once spanked the president with a copy of Forbes magazine bearing his face on the cover.The fact that the president has not given oxygen to the headlines, however, does not mean that he is content.Inside the White House, Mr. Trump is eager to defend himself against allegations that he insists are false, those close to him say. And he is growing increasingly frustrated with breathless, wall-to-wall news media coverage of the salacious details from the two women.On Monday, Ms. Cliffords lawyer added new charges to the suit she filed: that the presidents lawyer defamed Ms. Clifford in denying her claims; that he and Mr. Trump pursued the deal to specifically help Mr. Trumps election prospects; and that he then structured the agreement to shield from public view what was, effectively, an illegal $130,000 campaign gift.In discussions with allies and some aides, Mr. Trump has privately railed against Ms. Clifford, and insisted that she is not telling the truth. He has reminded advisers that he joined an effort to enforce financial penalties against Ms. Clifford, whose TV interview on Sunday night was hyped throughout the weekend on the cable news channels that Mr. Trump watches obsessively.But there has been no debate among Mr. Trumps advisers about the best course for him: just keep quiet about a story that would only be fueled by a presidential tweet or a comment about the women shouted above the roar of Marine One.Keeping a lid on Mr. Trump is never easy, especially when he is eager to hit back at his adversaries.In the days after an Access Hollywood video exposed his own lewd comments about women during the final month of the campaign, Mr. Trump responded by showing up at his debate with Hillary Clinton with three women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexual improprieties.As a candidate, and as president, Mr. Trump has eagerly attacked just about all of his enemies and accusers, often with colorful nicknames like Little Rocket Man for the North Korean leader, Crazy Joe Biden or Sloppy Steve Bannon.But for now, it appears that the president is listening to  and accepting  his advisers warnings on the dangers of speaking out about the women, much the way he followed the advice of his lawyers for a year not to attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel in the Russia inquiry.Recently, he has ditched that advice, attacking Mr. Mueller and his team directly on Twitter. That leaves only his alleged mistresses and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as people who are immune to Mr. Trumps Twitter trash-talk.Raj Shah, a deputy White House press secretary, declined to say what the president may or may not have seen on television Sunday night, though he said that Mr. Trump denies the allegations that Ms. Clifford made in the CBS interview.Ill just say that hes consistently denied these allegations, Mr. Shah said. The president doesnt believe that any of the claims that Ms. Daniels made last night in the interview are accurate.Mr. Trump dined at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida on Saturday evening with Michael D. Cohen, his lawyer and longtime aide who is at the center of the Clifford scandal, according to three people familiar with the get-together. The president scheduled the meeting himself, surprising his aides with it a short time before Mr. Cohen arrived, people familiar with the meeting said.Melania Trump, too, has been silent about the allegations. Asked to react to the interviews, Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trumps spokeswoman, said: Shes focusing on being a mother, shes quite enjoying her spring break and shes focused on future projects.It is not clear whether Mr. Trump watched a similar tell-all interview on CNN on Thursday evening, when Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, alleged a 10-month romantic affair with Mr. Trump in which they repeatedly had sex.Sundays interview with Ms. Clifford contained few surprises but some humiliating details, such as Ms. Clifford saying she was not attracted to Mr. Trump, and her recollection of spanking him. Virility and strength are key traits that the president likes to project, and he once gloated about a New York Post headline quoting a friend of his second wife, Marla Maples, who recalled Ms. Maples saying that Mr. Trump was the Best Sex Ive Ever Had.In the interview, Ms. Clifford said that she had flirted with Mr. Trump in 2006 at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe. She said Mr. Trump had compared her favorably to his daughter during the flirtation, and that she had intercourse with Mr. Trump.She also alleged that an unknown person whom she believed to be connected to Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen threatened her in a parking lot in 2011, telling her, leave Trump alone. Forget the story. Then looking at her infant daughter, he added, Thats a beautiful little girl. It would be a shame if something happened to her mom.Asked by Anderson Cooper whether she had anything to say to Mr. Trump, if he was watching Sunday night, Ms. Clifford said, He knows Im telling the truth.Even that has not prompted Mr. Trump to directly address the central allegations from Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal  that the president cheated on his wife shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son.Mr. Trump did type out a vague Fake News tweet on Monday morning, although it is unclear to what he was referring.Beyond the details of the alleged encounters, Mr. Trumps advisers have been urging the president to keep quiet about the legal wrangling concerning Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal.Ms. McDougal, who accepted $150,000 from the parent company of the National Enquirer to keep quiet about her alleged affair with Mr. Trump, is suing the company to be released from the contract. Mr. Cohen has acknowledged paying Ms. Clifford $130,000 in the days before the 2016 election to keep quiet about her allegations.Mr. Shah said at the White House on Monday that I can say categorically that, obviously, the White House didnt engage in any wrongdoing.Asked about why Mr. Trumps lawyer would pay Ms. Clifford $130,000 if her allegations were false, Mr. Shah said that false charges are settled out of court all the time. He referred further questions about the case to Mr. Cohen.The lawyer for Ms. Clifford has aggressively argued that his client is not bound by the nondisclosure agreement that she signed, in part because Mr. Trump himself never signed the document. Michael Avenatti, the lawyer, has repeatedly used Trumplike insinuations to suggest that Ms. Clifford has digital evidence of the intercourse.We have a litany of more evidence in this case, and its going to be disclosed, and its going to be laid bare for the American public, Mr. Avenatti said in an interview Monday morning on ABCs Good Morning America.Last week, Mr. Avenatti tweeted a picture of a CD or DVD with the suggestive caption: If a picture is worth a thousand words, how many words is this worth???? #60minutes #pleasedenyit #basta.Even that has not prompted a presidential retort  yet.
Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.It wasnt supposed to be like this. When a reader sends a tip to The Times, we investigate it, and normally one of two things happens: It becomes a story, or it doesnt pan out. Whats unusual is when the course of investigating a tip leads a journalist to debunk it, and that becomes the story.In my 30 years writing about science and medicine for The Times, it had never happened to me  until now. And although I wavered for a while about whether to go ahead with the reporting, it ended up as an article about doctors hesitations to use tissue plasminogen activator (T.P.A.), a drug for people experiencing a stroke.It started with a tip in February from a Canadian emergency medicine doctor, who said in an email that T.P.A., a widely promoted drug, was not only useless but dangerous  it could cause bleeding in the brain. Yet the drug was advocated by medical societies and continued to be used, he said, because there were powerful corporate interests influencing practice guidelines and encouraging doctors to believe the drug worked.I knew about T.P.A. and had always thought it was the only treatment that reduced disability when given to people within a few hours of a stroke caused by a blood clot that blocked a vessel in the brain. Had I been duped?I called the Canadian doctor, who said there were 15 clinical trials of T.P.A. in stroke patients. Thirteen failed to show a benefit, and the two that found one were deeply flawed. He referred me to an emeritus professor of emergency medicine at U.C.L.A.; I emailed to ask to speak to him, and asked for suggestions of others who also questioned the drug. And I emailed a Harvard professor who is a stroke expert.The Harvard professor got back to me immediately. Oh no, he said, not that small but vocal group of disbelievers again. The T.P.A. data are strong and convincing, he said. The failed trials were ones that tried to expand the use of the drug  for example, by seeing if it was possible to extend the time interval when the drug was effective beyond four hours after the stroke began. He emailed a group of academic stroke experts, asking them to contact me.I can always tell when a story hits a nerve. People rush to call or email. Thats what happened this time with the T.P.A. advocates. My inbox was flooded. One American doctor emailed me from Saudi Arabia, where he was giving a lecture.I also spoke to dissenters. And it seemed that the evidence in favor of the drug was overwhelming. The major professional societies, after reviewing the data, had given it their highest possible recommendation for use.What to do? The tipster had acted in good faith, but his tip had backfired. The simplest thing would be to drop the story.I told the U.C.L.A. professor what I was hearing. This is no surprise, Gina, he said. He knew many neurologists adamantly disagreed with the dissenters view but said he also has heard from neurologists who told him they felt great pressure to give the drug. They feel theres a bit of career suicide if a neurologist bucks his or her professional spokespeople.By now, I was fascinated. What I was seeing seemed to be the medical version of fake news, with T.P.A. skepticism being spread by social media and blogs. The result is that as many as 15 to 30 percent of stroke patients who could have been helped by the drug did not get it.I wanted to write this story, but I needed a victim who knew about his or her missed chance. (Many never find out.)I found one: the father of a researcher who was a principal investigator for the original study showing T.P.A. worked in strokes. But when this experts own father went to an emergency room with a stroke, the doctor there refused to administer it. The T.P.A. advocates father, denied the drug, was permanently disabled.In todays article, I did not mention the Canadian researcher who sent in the tip. He sincerely believed the drug was dangerous, and I did not want to embarrass him just because the article I wrote was the opposite of the one he was hoping for. I have a duty to the truth  but I always appreciate the heartfelt suggestions of tipsters, and I want to protect them, too.
JACKSON, Miss.   A nonpartisan group says in a complaint to the Federal Election Commission that a super PAC has been improperly organizing and funding activities for a Republican U.S. Senate candidate in Mississippi.The Washington-based Campaign Legal Center filed the complaint Monday against the Remember Mississippi super PAC and Chris McDaniel\'s campaign fund. It asks the FEC to investigate.Remember Mississippi raised nearly $1.1 million last year, with $500,000 coming from Richard Uihlein of Illinois, a packaging company executive who has donated to anti-union causes, and $500,000 from billionaire investor Robert Mercer of New York.The super PAC takes its name from the slogan McDaniel supporters adopted after McDaniel, a tea-party backed state lawmaker, lost a bitter 2014 Republican primary to longtime U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran, who was supported by the political establishment.McDaniel  who frequently criticizes Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said the campaign finance complaint is "frivolous" and "just another establishment dirty trick.""The complaint is completely bogus, just more fake news from the D.C. swamp," McDaniel in a text message said after reading it.The complaint says Remember Mississippi violated its certification as a super PAC by organizing and funding three campaign events that constituted "unreported and excessive in-kind contributions" to McDaniel. It said the events were fish fries in March 9 in Tupelo and March 10 Ellisville and a gathering March 11 at a church in Gulfport, all with McDaniel\'s name and image on the invitations. It also says that at all three events, McDaniel appeared before a backdrop that had "McDaniel U.S. Senate 2018" in large letters and "Remember Mississippi" in smaller text."We\'ve never seen a super PAC take the brazen step of organizing and funding straight-up campaign events for the candidate they are supporting," Brendan Fischer, Campaign Legal Center\'s director of federal and FEC reform, said in a statement. "Thanks to the FEC\'s ineffective enforcement of the law, super PACs and campaigns have increasingly found ways to work closely with one another, but it appears this Mercer-backed super PAC went too far. If it wants candidates to take campaign laws seriously, the FEC must investigate and punish violators for wrongdoing."In a statement Monday, Remember Mississippi treasurer Tommy Barnett said: "The complaint is nonsense. We\'re confident Remember Mississippi PAC has followed all applicable FEC laws and regulations for our activities."The complaint says that at the March 10 event, a representative of Remember Mississippi introduced McDaniel, solicited contributions for McDaniel\'s campaign and asked people to get their friends, co-workers and families to support McDaniel. However, the man who introduced McDaniel there, Hal Marx, said Monday that he is not affiliated with or employed by the super PAC."I spoke as a private citizen and was not told what to say, or what not to say. Those words were my own," said Marx, the mayor of Petal, Mississippi.McDaniel told The Associated Press during a brief interview Monday at the state Capitol: "I\'m confident there was no coordination. All I did  they told me a date and I showed up."McDaniel announced Feb. 28 that he would challenge Republican Sen. Roger Wicker, in this year\'s party primary. Cochran, 80, announced days later that he is retiring April 1 because of poor health, and McDaniel said March 12 that he is switching to run in a special election for Cochran\'s seat. McDaniel also asked Republican Gov. Phil Bryant to appoint him to temporarily succeed Cochran until the special election is held - an overture the governor swiftly rejected.Bryant last week appointed Mississippi Agriculture Commissioner Cindy Hyde-Smith to fill the Senate seat. In the Nov. 6 special election, she will face McDaniel and at least one other candidate, Democrat Mike Espy, who was President Bill Clinton\'s first secretary of agriculture. Special election candidates run without party labels, and a runoff, if needed, would be Nov. 27. The winner will fill the rest of the term, which expires in January 2021.Barnett questioned why Campaign Legal Center did not file a federal complaint about how Hyde-Smith had previously spent some of her state campaign money.Hyde-Smith responded: "If Chris McDaniel thinks he\'s going to blame me for his campaign being accused of breaking the law, he\'s going to be in for a long campaign."___Follow Emily Wagster Pettus on Twitter: http://twitter.com/EWagsterPettus .

As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg\'s to-do list landed him on a fishing trawler off Alabama\'s Gulf coast.But the chatter surrounding the CEO\'s arrival in port was that it signaled something bigger than just the start of a 30-state personal tour: his designs on a job even more powerful than leading the social network that links 2.2 billion people worldwide."It was one of the last things I asked him, thinking it would put a smile on his face  and it did," said Dominick Ficarino, who owns a shrimp business in Bayou La Batre, Alabama, and hosted a dockside lunch for Zuckerberg that Sunday afternoon."I asked him if he was interested in running for president of the United States. And his answer to me was: \'Can I answer you with a question? If you were me, would you?\'"Thirteen months later, Zuckerberg no longer has the luxury of mulling a hypothetical next act. Instead, he is grappling with a crisis that has enveloped the company synonymous with his face and name. It does not help that the most glaring reminder of Facebook\'s flaws is the unabated uproar over the American presidency itself."The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do," Zuckerberg wrote in January, laying out the "personal challenge" that he sets for himself each year.In 2017, the billionaire challenged himself to travel to every state he\'d never visited. This year, long after critics began demanding an overhaul, Zuckerberg said his personal goal is to "fix" the platform that he has engineered to build community  but that is increasingly blamed for warping it.Yet things continue to get worse. Scrutiny of Facebook has intensified following reports that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users  possibly used to aid Donald Trump\'s campaign  and that the social network has been collecting Android users\' phone call and text message histories without notice. That adds to criticism that Facebook manipulates its users and has allowed Russian bots to divide Americans by spreading false information.On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating Facebook for its privacy practices.Throughout the mounting crisis, Zuckerberg\'s response has been a study in contradictions. He crisscrossed the country, even as his company back home came under increasing fire. He preaches transparency, but flinches at questioning and craves privacy. He is undeniably brilliant, but stubborn in his reluctance to acknowledge the extent of Facebook\'s problems.Even his critics say he is uniquely capable of righting the ship. But at 33, is he prepared to do all it will take?"If he fails to do it, it may take a while but eventually people are going to rebel," said Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor and adviser who has become one of the company\'s most pointed critics."I thought Facebook was a force for good in the world for a really long time," McNamee said. "I think it\'s really hard to make that case today."___Days after Trump\'s election, Zuckerberg was pressed on the possibility that foreign agents had used his social network to divide voters."The idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way, I think, is a pretty crazy idea," the CEO told the audience at a California technology conference."I think all of us were shocked to learn how wrong he was," said David Kirkpatrick, the author of a 2010 book about Facebook who questioned Zuckerberg that day. "You can certainly say that he was culpable, in that he was naive and inattentive to what was happening in his system. But I don\'t think he was lying."Zuckerberg walked back the remark soon after, continuing a years-long routine of self-correction. But errors that reflect his stubbornness, those who know him say, are tempered by an eagerness to learn from mistakes and a deep sense of reflection.Donald Graham, the former chairman of the Washington Post Co., recalled that when he met Zuckerberg in 2005, outsiders still weren\'t sure what to make of Facebook."I would ask him a question and he would pause long enough  15 seconds, 20 seconds  that I would think \'Did I insult him? Did he not hear me?\'" said Graham, who went on to serve on the company\'s board from 2008 to 2015."Since I am from Washington, I\'m not used to people thinking before they are answering a question. ... But Mark, then as now, was thinking about the right answer."Zuckerberg\'s boyish appearance, even today, is a reminder of just how young he was when he created what would become the world\'s biggest social network, back in his dorm room at Harvard."I didn\'t know anything about building a company or global internet service," he wrote in January. "Over the years I\'ve made almost every mistake you can imagine."Naomi Gleit, Facebook\'s longest-serving employee after the CEO, said Zuckerberg  who declined an interview request from The Associated Press  has been talking about making the world a better place since he was 21. But his view of that world and his place in it "seemed almost like a gravity, a burden of responsibility," she said.That seriousness coincides with a sense of certainty.Gleit recalled Zuckerberg\'s steadfast attachment to a Facebook message service similar to email, even as more people began using phones to send text messages. But co-workers eventually swayed the CEO, who she described as a "learn-it-all." That change-of-mind informed Facebook\'s 2014 purchase of the WhatsApp messaging service for $19 billion."I think he would even say now that he was initially wrong," Gleit said.With Zuckerberg, "its experiment, learn, experiment, learn," said LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who has known him since 2004. Hoffman said that is evident in Zuckerberg\'s enthusiasm for software, which can be overwritten to fix problems. That facility, he said, makes Zuckerberg the equal of executives with far more experience.But in the process of learning, Zuckerberg\'s inexperience has sometimes played out in public view.___In 2010, Zuckerberg announced on Oprah Winfrey\'s television show that he would donate $100 million to schools in Newark, New Jersey.Critics labeled it an attempt to polish his image, just as the biopic "The Social Network" was being released. Still, there was little questioning his generosity. The problem was that Zuckerberg  who knew little about education  made the gift with few specifics outlining how it should be spent."He was just a very young, naive, inexperienced guy who was brilliant at technology and computers and the internet, but just really didn\'t know much about how the world worked," said Dale Russakoff, author of "The Prize," a book chronicling how the money went to high-priced consultants, with minimal effort by leaders to build community support.By the end of the process, Zuckerberg had developed a clearer understanding of how to get things done. He and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, have since chartered their own foundation and structured it to take on mammoth goals, like a $3 billion investment to cure, prevent or manage all diseases. He has pledged to donate 99 percent of his Facebook stock to philanthropy."Zuck\'s maturation has occurred in front of the public," said Kirkpatrick, author of "The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that Is Connecting the World." \'\'But he also still lives with the consequences of the decisions he made when he was less mature."At Facebook, Zuckerberg has grown increasingly bold in using huge sums of money to pursue corporate goals, which includes purchasing competitors  or companies that could grow into competitors.Facebook\'s $1 billion purchase of Instagram in 2012  then unprofitable and little-known  came as a shock to Wall Street. Two years later came the multibillion-dollar deal to buy WhatsApp, a company that remains unprofitable but has given Facebook a prime portal into developing countries and other regions outside the U.S.In 2014, soon after Facebook bought a virtual reality firm called Oculus, Zuckerberg found himself being grilled in a lawsuit brought by a competitor who accused an Oculus executive of stealing trade secrets. Under questioning, he talked about the pressure he exerted to make the Oculus deal happen, and his vision of growing it so fast "that we can get every developer and studio in the world building just for Oculus before any big competitor exists."Last year, in a bid to free up his fortune for philanthropy, Zuckerberg pushed board members to restructure Facebook\'s stock, allowing him to sell off part of his stake while maintaining control. That prompted a suit by a group of shareholders who argued that the move would benefit only Zuckerberg while diluting the value of other investors\' stakes. Days before Zuckerberg was scheduled to testify as part of the suit, the company dropped the plan.The gambit hints at the complexity of being Zuckerberg, who advocates for transparency and the interests of the community but whose individual interests don\'t always align.The paradox is self-inflicted, the trade-off for creating a venture premised on users\' willingness to share details of their lives. That requires Zuckerberg, who has 105 million Facebook "friends," to reveal far more about himself than would be expected of any other CEO, whether its photos of him and Chan baking sweets for the Jewish holiday of Purim or dressing their daughters for the Chinese New Year.Yet he fiercely guards his privacy.When calls went out last year for Zuckerberg to testify before a Senate committee, the company sent its lawyer. And when he and Chan bought 700 acres on the Hawaiian island of Kauai last year, they quietly filed lawsuits against hundreds of Hawaiians  withdrawn after protests  that would have cut off locals\' access to the land by negating their interest in small ancestral tracts within the estate\'s boundaries."Intellectually, he believes in transparency," Kirkpatrick said. "But emotionally, it\'s very difficult for him."____Facebook works hard to present Zuckerberg as someone deeply interested in the ordinary people whose lives are at the heart of its business.Stops on last year\'s U.S. tour, never announced, were set up by facilitators who revealed details to only a select few. But many of the visits were covered by the media and documented in professional-quality photos on Zuckerberg\'s Facebook page soon after he\'d departed.Ostensibly, the idea was for Zuckerberg to learn. But in their brief interactions, many people were just as interested in finding a way to connect with him.In Hazard, Kentucky, educator Paul Green became custodian of the small town\'s biggest secret. A staffer from Zuckerberg\'s foundation, peppering Green with questions about the region\'s educational cooperative, finally admitted it was because the CEO himself wanted to visit. Green\'s reward for keeping it quiet was seeing the wide-eyed grins when Zuckerberg pulled up and greeted local high schoolers studying robotics and programming.Walking through science demonstrations, Zuckerberg spent more time trading tech tales with the teenagers than quizzing the teachers."He just lit up with those kids," Green said. "The way he talked with them about some of the things he did when he was in school and his passion for technology, it really was cool."When Zuckerberg toured an oil rig near Williston, North Dakota, last July, "from the minute he got out of the car to the minute he got back in the car, he was nothing but questions," said Ron Ness, president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council, which arranged the visit."I had Bakken shale, limestone, dolomite, and he was able to hold them in his hand, along with a bottle of crude oil. And I remember him asking, \'How do you get that oil out of that rock?\'" geologist Kathleen Neset said.In Dayton, Ohio, Zuckerberg met with officials, caregivers and families battling drug addiction. Lori Erion, the founder of the group Families of Addicts, said she told him what it was like to learn her daughter, April, had shot up heroin in their own home."It seemed to get him really emotional," Erion said, recalling how Zuckerberg stood up suddenly and told the group he needed a few minutes to steady himself. When he returned, he asked what makes an addict stay clean and how families got their loved ones into treatment."We didn\'t ever talk about Facebook at all," Erion said, "which is really interesting because Facebook is really the main way of us getting information out. He really was just like a regular person."___As Zuckerberg connected with Americans face-to-face, controversy over Facebook continued to spiral.Shortly before the election, McNamee sent a letter to Zuckerberg and Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warning that Facebook was being manipulated in ways its creators never intended. It wasn\'t just about the U.S. election: A consulting firm had collected data on people interested in the Black Lives Matter movement and sold it to police departments, and critics had detected a well-organized, clandestine campaign supporting Brexit.All this pointed to a deep problem with Facebook  that it was simply not equipped or not willing to prevent the misuse of its platform.McNamee said he has been disappointed in the incremental changes announced since.Facebook has adopted this "libertarian philosophy that says \'we are not responsible for anything downstream, we are allowed to disrupt media, we are allowed to addict our users and we are not responsible for any of the consequences of any of that,\'" he said.Zuckerberg could change that. But McNamee said it is not enough to hire thousands of workers to weed through fake and abusive posts if those posts keep getting through. And tweaking Facebook\'s newsfeed so users see more posts from families and friends does not address his certainty that the algorithms underlying Facebook make it dangerously addictive."You cannot cure addiction by doing more of the thing that got you addicted in the first place, which is what Zuck recommends," McNamee wrote in an email.Critics say Facebook continues to ignore the possibility of the social network being used for dark purposes, but Zuckerberg\'s supporters counter that he is unfairly blamed for problems he could not have foreseen.Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, credits Zuckerberg with leading Facebook through a shift in mindset, making changes that will nudge users into a more positive virtual environment  without completely shutting out inflammatory content."Facebook basically is saying we enable people based on the way they behave. That\'s a very democratic argument. If people want to live in filter bubbles, who are we to say \'Don\'t live in filter bubbles,\' even though we don\'t want them to?" Hoffman said.But Kirkpatrick argued that Zuckerberg\'s and Sandberg\'s surety that Facebook has a positive impact on society has blinded them to parallel realities. The company can\'t be fixed, Kirkpatrick said, until Zuckerberg comes to terms with existential threats to the way the social network does business  its potential to negatively affect democracy and the way it hooks in users."There\'s no question in my mind that Mark Zuckerberg is an ethical and responsible human being who wants to do the right thing," he said. "However, I do not think he has yet grasped the gravity with which his service is being perceived to be a socially harmful force all around the world. And I also don\'t think he realizes the extent to which that really is true."McNamee, recalling Zuckerberg as a 22-year-old visionary, said the CEO must be willing to rethink long-held assumptions. But that does not mean he has to abandon building his global community."You\'ve won," McNamee said he would tell Zuckerberg if asked again for his counsel."You\'ve achieved more than your wildest dreams. You\'re a billionaire. Now you have a chance to be a hero."
As President Trump heads into one of the most critical phases of the special counsels investigation, his personal legal team has shrunk to essentially just one member, and he is struggling to find any top lawyers willing to represent him.Working for a president is usually seen as a dream job. But leading lawyers in Washington and New York have repeatedly spurned overtures to take over the defense of Mr. Trump, a mercurial client who often ignores his advisers guidance. In some cases, lawyers firms have blocked any talks, fearing a backlash that would hurt business.The president lost two lawyers in just the past four days, including one who had been on board for less than a week.Joseph diGenova, a longtime Washington lawyer who has pushed theories on Fox News that the F.B.I. made up evidence against Mr. Trump, left the team on Sunday. He had been hired last Monday, three days before the head of the presidents personal legal team, John Dowd, quit after determining that the president was not listening to his advice. Mr. Trump had also considered hiring Mr. diGenovas wife, Victoria Toensing, but she will also not join the team.That leaves the president with just one personal lawyer who is working full time on the special counsels investigation as Mr. Trump is facing one of the most significant decisions related to it: whether to sit for an interview.That lawyer, Jay Sekulow, is a conservative commentator who made his name on religious freedom cases. Mr. Sekulow is in talks with other lawyers about joining the team, although it is not clear how far those discussions have progressed.Hours before the announcement of Mr. diGenovas departure, which Mr. Sekulow said was related to a conflict of interest, the president took to Twitter to reject any suggestion that lawyers do not want to work for him.Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case  dont believe the Fake News narrative that it is hard to find a lawyer who wants to take this on, he wrote. Fame & fortune will NEVER be turned down by a lawyer, though some are conflicted.Adding new lawyers, he said, would be costly because they would take months to get up to speed (if for no other reason than they can bill more).I am very happy with my existing team, he added.This month, the president met with the veteran lawyer Emmet Flood about the possibility of joining the legal team. But Mr. Trump was put off by the fact that Mr. Flood, a Republican, had represented Bill Clinton during his impeachment process, and Mr. Flood has made clear that he will not represent the president if Marc E. Kasowitz, his brash longtime personal lawyer, has any role in the effort.Mr. Trump also tried to recruit Theodore B. Olson, a well-known Republican lawyer, but Mr. Olson has said he would not be representing the president.The first phase of legal work for Mr. Trump in the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was led by a White House lawyer, Ty Cobb. That work, which in part involved the production of documents and the arrangement of interviews with White House officials, has been largely completed.The second phase, which is now focused on the question of a presidential interview with Mr. Mueller, had been led by Mr. Dowd. One reason Mr. Dowd quit was that, against his advice, Mr. Trump was insistent that he wanted to answer questions under oath from Mr. Mueller, believing that it would help clear him.Mr. Dowd had concluded that there was no upside and that the president, who often does not tell the truth, could increase his legal exposure if his answers were not accurate.Roger Cossack, a seasoned legal analyst, said the key to successfully defending a high-profile client under immense scrutiny was to have a cohesive legal team with a consistent strategy.In these types of cases, you need highly competent lawyers and a client who will listen and follow their advice, Mr. Cossack said. If you dont have both, you have what were seeing here: chaos and disaster.You have a client who clearly thinks he has a better idea of how things should work than the lawyers who, from time to time, have told him things he doesnt want to hear, he added. He is looking for the guy who can say, I know how to handle Mueller, I know you think he is bad, and well take care of it. Problem is you cant find that lawyer because no one will be able to do that.People close to the president say the upheaval in the legal team was inevitable. When Mr. Kasowitz took the lead after Mr. Mueller was appointed in May, he wanted to follow a model used by Mr. Clinton, with a separate team of lawyers and communications professionals handling issues related to the inquiry, so that the White House staff could keep its distance.But Mr. Trump, who trusts few people and considers himself his best lawyer, spokesman and strategist, never wanted that type of system. As a result, his legal and public relations strategies have been out of sync, with the president at times publicly contradicting his lawyers, and the White House often finding itself flat-footed in the face of new disclosures about the Russia investigation.The presidents decision has also exposed many of his aides, leaving them deeply enmeshed in an inquiry that is likely to cost them tens of thousands of dollars in legal fees.But while Mr. Trump has struggled to find lawyers, his family and his close associates are being represented by some of the countrys top legal talent.His son-in-law, Jared Kushner, has hired Abbe Lowell, a longtime Washington lawyer who recently got the Justice Department to drop corruption charges against Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, after a lengthy court fight.Three prominent current and former White House officials  the former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon; the former chief of staff, Reince Priebus; and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn  are being represented by William A. Burck, who turned down the chance to represent the president. Mr. Burck, a former federal prosecutor, represented FIFA in its legal problems in the United States and has worked for high-profile witnesses in federal investigations, including Maureen McDonnell, the wife of a former Virginia governor.The turmoil in Mr. Trumps legal team started within weeks of the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Kasowitz pushed for an adversarial approach to the special counsel, which the president was poised to follow. But Mr. Kasowitz clashed with Mr. Kushner, and he was soon pushed aside after a series of missteps and embarrassing incidents.The president then hired Mr. Cobb, a veteran Washington lawyer, to lead efforts within the White House, as well as Mr. Dowd, who was put in charge of his personal legal team. They advocated a strategy of cooperation, telling the president that the sooner he gave Mr. Muellers office what it wanted, the sooner his name would be cleared.While Mr. Cobb had told the president that the investigation would be over by now, it seems to be accelerating. Mr. Mueller is still looking into a wide range of matters related to Mr. Trumps corporate activities, his 2016 campaign, his associates and his time in office.Mr. Trump, hoping to bolster his team, met with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing in recent days but, according to two people told of details about the meeting, did not believe he had personal chemistry with them.There were also significant conflict-of-interest issues, but Mr. Trump could have waived them if he wanted. Ms. Toensing is representing Mark Corallo, who was the spokesman for Mr. Trumps legal team in 2017 before they parted ways. Mr. Corallo has told investigators that he was concerned that a close aide to Mr. Trump, Hope Hicks, may have been planning to obstruct justice during the drafting of a statement about a meeting between a Russian lawyer and Donald Trump Jr. during the campaign.Ms. Hickss lawyer has strongly denied that suggestion, and White House aides said Mr. Corallos assertion had come up in discussions with the president as he weighed whether to go ahead with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.Mr. diGenova had been expected to serve as an outspoken voice for the president as Mr. Trump has increased his attacks on Mr. Mueller. Mr. diGenova has endorsed the notion that a secretive group of F.B.I. agents concocted the Russia investigation as a way to keep Mr. Trump from becoming president, a theory with little supporting evidence.There was a brazen plot to illegally exonerate Hillary Clinton and, if she didnt win the election, to then frame Donald Trump with a falsely created crime, he had told Fox News in January.
ANAHEIM, Calif.   Kenta Maeda finished last season pitching aggressively and effectively out of the Dodgers\' bullpen.Los Angeles hoped that might carry over in 2018. With the regular season quickly approaching, the club might get its wish.Maeda went five strong innings in the Dodgers\' 4-2 win over the Los Angeles Angels, giving up two solo home runs but allowing only two other hits while striking out five."I think with Kenta the first couple of years, he was just pacing himself," Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said. "But out of the \'pen where he can really attack, I think that\'s given him the confidence that he can dominate and that\'s really translated to the starting role."Chris Taylor and Yasiel Puig each hit a solo home run to support Maeda. Taylor had three hits, including his shot that put the Dodgers up 3-2 in the seventh inning. Puig followed one out later with his third home run in four games.Both of the Angels\' runs also came on solo shots, with Zack Cozart and Mike Trout giving them an early 2-0 lead.Cozart\'s home run was a team-leading fourth of the spring. He is batting .348."We expect him to hit with a lot of men on base," Scioscia said. "He\'s swung the bat well probably the last 20 at-bats this spring."STRANGEST STEALIt may be only spring, but Angels second baseman Ian Kinsler had a stolen base he\'s likely to remember.He was at second with two outs after a double in the sixth inning when he looked at the scoreboard and saw Justin Upton had two strikes on him. When Upton swung and missed, Kinsler started walking off, thinking the inning was over.Only the scoreboard had credited Upton with one strike too many.Kinsler jogged toward the dugout in the direction of third base. The Dodgers were so stunned, they weren\'t sure how to react. Catcher Yasmani Grandal pumped fake a couple throws to third, but Logan Forsythe was too far off the base. Grandal never threw the ball, and a dumfounded Kinsler took his helmet off and looked around confused when he reached third."I thought everybody else had it wrong," he said.He was credited with a stolen base.STADIUM CHANGESunday was the Angels\' first game at home since redesigning the outfield.The Angels have added larger, brighter scoreboards behind both outfield stands. In the process of significantly increasing the size of their out-of-town scoreboard behind right field wall, they lowered the wall from 18 feet to 8 feet, potentially leading to more homers to right."I think just visually it looks awesome out there with the new scoreboards," right fielder Kole Calhoun said. "It\'s going to be pretty cool."It\'s going to be interesting to see how the ballpark plays now. It\'s definitely going to be different, but you adjust and make it your own."Puig\'s home run would have gone off the wall in the stadium\'s previous makeup.PUIG BATS THIRDPuig hit at the bottom of the order last season, but with Justin Turner lost to a fractured wrist, he batted third Sunday and could be finding a new temporary home."Can I say right now that he is going to hit third every day? Absolutely not," Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said. "But I think that I will give him a little bit of a runway to show that he deserves that opportunity."UP NEXTDodgers: LHP Rich Hill is scheduled to start Monday when the Freeway Series switches to Dodger Stadium.Angels: RHP Matt Shoemaker is set to make his final spring start Monday.___More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
WASHINGTON   The White House on Monday disputed adult film star Stormy Daniels\' claim that she was threatened to keep quiet over her alleged affair with Donald Trump and said the president continues to deny the relationship.Daniels\' detailed her allegations in a widely watched interview with "60 Minutes" that sparked new legal wrangling between attorneys for the porn star and the president\'s team. A lawyer for Michael Cohen, Trump\'s personal attorney, demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client for suggesting he was involved in her intimidation. Daniels responded by filing a revised federal lawsuit accusing Cohen of defamation.Trump, who frequently takes on his foes in person and on social media, remained uncharacteristically quiet about the matter Monday. He sent a cryptic tweet saying "fake news" has "never been more voluminous or more inaccurate" but it was unclear what exactly he was referring to.Instead, he left the denials to his White House staff. Spokesman Raj Shah declined to say whether the president had watched Daniels\' interview, but said Trump did not believe any of the claims she made."The president strongly, clearly and has consistently denied these underlying claims, and the only person who\'s been inconsistent is the one making the claims," Shah said.But Daniels was on Trump\'s mind this weekend in Palm Beach, Florida, where he had dinner Saturday night with Cohen at his Mar-a-Lago estate.Trump, according to one person who spent time with him, told guests that Daniels now owes him $21 million for breaking her silence, and that every time she talks, she owes him a million more. Trump appeared in good spirits, laughing off the fact that Daniels will be bringing her "Making America Horny Again" strip show to a nearby venue next month, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to disclose private conversations.Mar-a-Lago member Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, told ABC Sunday that Trump told him "much of the Stormy Daniels stuff" is a "political hoax."Trump returned to Washington Sunday night, though first lady Melania Trump stayed behind in Florida. A spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump said she is "focused on being a mom and is quite enjoying spring break at Mar-a-Lago while working on future projects."In her interview, Daniels said she\'d slept with Trump once, shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to the president\'s youngest son.  She also said that a man approached her in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011, when she was with her infant daughter, and threatened her with physical harm if she went public with her story.In a letter late Sunday night, an attorney for Cohen demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client."In truth, Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred," wrote Brent H. Blakely. He said Daniels and her lawyer, Michael Avenatti, should "cease and desist from making any further false and defamatory statements about my client."Daniels, in the revised lawsuit she filed Monday, alleges Cohen made a false statement that damaged her reputation when he released a statement in February that intimated she was lying.In a round of television interviews Monday morning, Avenatti said he was holding back certain details of the alleged affair, including the contents of a CD or DVD he tweeted a picture of last week, for strategic reasons. "It would make no sense for us to play our hand as to this issue and we\'re not going to do it right now," he said on NBC\'s "Today" show.Daniels received a $130,000 payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement she signed. Cohen has said he paid the $130,000 out of his own pocket while asserting Trump never had sex with the porn actress.Previously, Cohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.During Monday\'s briefing, Shah said neither the White House nor Trump had violated campaign finance laws that restrict political contributions."The White House didn\'t engage in any wrongdoing," Shah said of Trump\'s behavior, adding that there was "nothing to corroborate" Daniels\' intimidation claims.In the interview, Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with him talking about himself and showing her an issue of a magazine with his picture on the cover.She said she ordered him to drop his pants and, in a playful manner, "I just gave him a couple swats." At one point she said he told her: "Wow, you  you are special. You remind me of my daughter."The interview gave "60 Minutes" its biggest audience in a decade, with slightly more than 22 million viewers tuning in, according to Nielsen Co. estimates.Daniels is not the only woman accusing Trump. Former Playboy model Karen McDougal told Cooper in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday that her affair with Trump began at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 2006. McDougal said she ended the relationship in 2007 out of guilt concerning Trump\'s wife, Melania.McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair, but the story never ran. It also alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.___Associated Press writers Ken Thomas, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates   Roadside bombs disguised as rocks in Yemen bear similarities to others used by Hezbollah in southern Lebanon and by insurgents in Iraq and Bahrain, suggesting at the least an Iranian influence in their manufacture, a watchdog group said Monday.The report by Conflict Armament Research comes as the West and United Nations researchers accuse Iran of supplying arms to Yemen\'s Shiite rebels known as Houthis, who have held the country\'s capital since September 2014.Those weapons allegedly included ballistic missiles used to target Saudi Arabia, which leads a military coalition of Arab nations backed by the U.S. that is stuck in a stalemate war with the Houthis. A barrage of Houthi missile fire late Sunday killed one person in Riyadh and wounded two others.Iran has long denied supplying arms to the Houthis, and its mission to the United Nations is dismissing the new report. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif has derided such weapons research as "fabricating evidence."The report is just the latest sign of how the conflict in Yemen, the Arab world\'s poorest country where over 10,000 people have been killed, has changed from a civil war to a proxy fight among Mideast rivals. The Saudi-led war there turned three years old Sunday."What we\'re hoping this does is make plausible deniability not very plausible," said Tim Michetti, head of regional operations for Conflict Armament Research. "You can\'t really deny this anymore once the components these things are made with are traced to Iranian distributors."Michetti\'s organization, an independent watchdog group that receives funding from the United Arab Emirates, Germany and the European Union to research weaponry recovered in Yemen, said it examined a fake rock bomb in January near Mokha, some 250 kilometers (150 miles) southwest of the capital, Sanaa.The fiberglass-encased bomb, packed with explosives, could be armed by radio and triggered by an infrared beam, the group said. It said there were three varieties, including anti-personnel mines and so-called explosively formed projectiles, which can penetrate armored vehicles and were used with lethal effect against U.S. troops following the 2003 invasion of Iraq.Electrical circuitry in the bombs mirrored those manufactured by militants in Bahrain, while the bombs bore markings suggesting one workshop mass-produced the explosives, the report said. Such bombs, however, have yet to be used in Bahrain, an island kingdom off Saudi Arabia in the midst of a crackdown on all dissent.Investigators also found a type of Chinese-manufactured wire covering used in other Iranian materiel, the report said.It said independent experts also examined the explosives. Those experts said that "construction indicates that the bomb maker had a degree of knowledge in constructing devices that resembled, and possibly functioned in a manner similar to (explosively formed projectile bombs) that have been forensically tied to Iran and Hezbollah," the report said.Alireza Miryousefi, a spokesman for Iran\'s mission to the United Nations, dismissed the report, saying the Houthis had no need for such weapons as they control stockpiles of arms purchased under former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh. The Houthis killed Saleh, their one-time ally, in December."President Saleh was the sweetheart of America and Saudi Arabia," Miryousefi told The Associated Press. "It seems petro-dollars are promoting such reports in order to rationalize war crimes in Yemen as well as the oppression of Bahrain\'s completely civil and popular protests."Told of the Iranian response, Michetti invited officials from Tehran to take part in his organization\'s research in the future.This is not the first time Iran has been accused of arming the Houthis.The U.S. Navy\'s 5th Fleet, based in Bahrain, has repeatedly said Iran sends arms into Yemen. It points to seizures over a four-week period in early 2016, when coalition warships stopped three dhows, traditional ships that ferry cargo in the Persian Gulf.  The dhows carried thousands of Kalashnikov assault rifles as well as sniper rifles, machine guns, rocket-propelled grenade launchers, anti-tank missiles and other weapons.One dhow carried 2,000 new assault rifles with serial numbers in sequential order, suggesting they came from a national stockpile, a previous Conflict Armament Research report said. The rocket-propelled grenade launchers also bore hallmarks of being manufactured in Iran, the group said.The group has also said drones used by the Houthis to crash into Patriot missile batteries in Saudi Arabia share "near-identical design and construction characteristics" of Iranian drones.The weapons transfers also allegedly include ballistic missile technology. The United Nations, Western countries and the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen all say the Houthis\' Burkan or Volcano missile mirrors characteristics of an Iranian Qiam ballistic missile. They say that suggests Tehran either shared the technology or smuggled disassembled missiles to the Houthis who then rebuilt them.Iran denies sharing missiles with the Houthis, though such a move would fit a pattern followed by the Islamic Republic since its 1980s war with Iraq. Iran largely has avoided direct confrontation with its foreign adversaries, instead relying on proxy groups that it arms through the hard-line Revolutionary Guard\'s expeditionary Quds Force or other middlemen.The latest accusation comes as the Saudi-led coalition faces intense international criticism for its airstrike campaign that has struck hospitals and markets, killing numerous civilians. The U.N. also says a Saudi-led blockade on Yemen\'s ports is "essentially using the threat of starvation as a bargaining tool and an instrument of war" in a country already facing diphtheria and cholera outbreaks while on the verge of famine.Iran\'s weapons transfers to Yemen bleed Saudi Arabia, its regional rival, at a low cost while providing deniability for Tehran, analysts say."This has been just a golden opportunity for Iran to have this access and to do it so cheaply and continue to be this thorn in Saudi Arabia\'s throat," said Fatima Abo Alasrar, a senior analyst at the Washington-based Arabia Foundation and a Yemeni national critical of the Houthis. "It\'s been a huge win for them."___Jon Gambrell on Twitter: www.twitter.com/jongambrellap. His work can be found at http://apne.ws/2galNpz.
As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg\'s to-do list landed him on a fishing trawler off Alabama\'s Gulf coast.But the chatter surrounding the CEO\'s arrival in port was that it signaled something bigger than just the start of a 30-state personal tour: his designs on a job even more powerful than leading the social network that links 2.2 billion people worldwide."It was one of the last things I asked him, thinking it would put a smile on his face  and it did," said Dominick Ficarino, who owns a shrimp business in Bayou La Batre, Alabama, and hosted a dockside lunch for Zuckerberg that Sunday afternoon."I asked him if he was interested in running for president of the United States. And his answer to me was: \'Can I answer you with a question? If you were me, would you?\'"Thirteen months later, Zuckerberg no longer has the luxury of mulling a hypothetical next act. Instead, he is grappling with a crisis that has enveloped the company synonymous with his face and name. It does not help that the most glaring reminder of Facebook\'s flaws is the unabated uproar over the American presidency itself."The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do," Zuckerberg wrote in January, laying out the "personal challenge" that he sets for himself each year.In 2017, the billionaire challenged himself to travel to every state he\'d never visited. This year, long after critics began demanding an overhaul, Zuckerberg said his personal goal is to "fix" the platform that he has engineered to build community  but that is increasingly blamed for warping it.Yet things continue to get worse. Scrutiny of Facebook has intensified following reports that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users  possibly used to aid Donald Trump\'s campaign  and that the social network has been collecting Android users\' phone call and text message histories without notice. That adds to criticism that Facebook manipulates its users and has allowed Russian bots to divide Americans by spreading false information.On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating Facebook for its privacy practices.Throughout the mounting crisis, Zuckerberg\'s response has been a study in contradictions. He crisscrossed the country, even as his company back home came under increasing fire. He preaches transparency, but flinches at questioning and craves privacy. He is undeniably brilliant, but stubborn in his reluctance to acknowledge the extent of Facebook\'s problems.Even his critics say he is uniquely capable of righting the ship. But at 33, is he prepared to do all it will take?"If he fails to do it, it may take a while but eventually people are going to rebel," said Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor and adviser who has become one of the company\'s most pointed critics."I thought Facebook was a force for good in the world for a really long time," McNamee said. "I think it\'s really hard to make that case today."___Days after Trump\'s election, Zuckerberg was pressed on the possibility that foreign agents had used his social network to divide voters."The idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way, I think, is a pretty crazy idea," the CEO told the audience at a California technology conference."I think all of us were shocked to learn how wrong he was," said David Kirkpatrick, the author of a 2010 book about Facebook who questioned Zuckerberg that day. "You can certainly say that he was culpable, in that he was naive and inattentive to what was happening in his system. But I don\'t think he was lying."Zuckerberg walked back the remark soon after, continuing a years-long routine of self-correction. But errors that reflect his stubbornness, those who know him say, are tempered by an eagerness to learn from mistakes and a deep sense of reflection.Donald Graham, the former chairman of the Washington Post Co., recalled that when he met Zuckerberg in 2005, outsiders still weren\'t sure what to make of Facebook."I would ask him a question and he would pause long enough  15 seconds, 20 seconds  that I would think \'Did I insult him? Did he not hear me?\'" said Graham, who went on to serve on the company\'s board from 2008 to 2015."Since I am from Washington, I\'m not used to people thinking before they are answering a question. ... But Mark, then as now, was thinking about the right answer."Zuckerberg\'s boyish appearance, even today, is a reminder of just how young he was when he created what would become the world\'s biggest social network, back in his dorm room at Harvard."I didn\'t know anything about building a company or global internet service," he wrote in January. "Over the years I\'ve made almost every mistake you can imagine."Naomi Gleit, Facebook\'s longest-serving employee after the CEO, said Zuckerberg  who declined an interview request from The Associated Press  has been talking about making the world a better place since he was 21. But his view of that world and his place in it "seemed almost like a gravity, a burden of responsibility," she said.That seriousness coincides with a sense of certainty.Gleit recalled Zuckerberg\'s steadfast attachment to a Facebook message service similar to email, even as more people began using phones to send text messages. But co-workers eventually swayed the CEO, who she described as a "learn-it-all." That change-of-mind informed Facebook\'s 2014 purchase of the WhatsApp messaging service for $19 billion."I think he would even say now that he was initially wrong," Gleit said.With Zuckerberg, "its experiment, learn, experiment, learn," said LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who has known him since 2004. Hoffman said that is evident in Zuckerberg\'s enthusiasm for software, which can be overwritten to fix problems. That facility, he said, makes Zuckerberg the equal of executives with far more experience.But in the process of learning, Zuckerberg\'s inexperience has sometimes played out in public view.___In 2010, Zuckerberg announced on Oprah Winfrey\'s television show that he would donate $100 million to schools in Newark, New Jersey.Critics labeled it an attempt to polish his image, just as the biopic "The Social Network" was being released. Still, there was little questioning his generosity. The problem was that Zuckerberg  who knew little about education  made the gift with few specifics outlining how it should be spent."He was just a very young, naive, inexperienced guy who was brilliant at technology and computers and the internet, but just really didn\'t know much about how the world worked," said Dale Russakoff, author of "The Prize," a book chronicling how the money went to high-priced consultants, with minimal effort by leaders to build community support.By the end of the process, Zuckerberg had developed a clearer understanding of how to get things done. He and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, have since chartered their own foundation and structured it to take on mammoth goals, like a $3 billion investment to cure, prevent or manage all diseases. He has pledged to donate 99 percent of his Facebook stock to philanthropy."Zuck\'s maturation has occurred in front of the public," said Kirkpatrick, author of "The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that Is Connecting the World." \'\'But he also still lives with the consequences of the decisions he made when he was less mature."At Facebook, Zuckerberg has grown increasingly bold in using huge sums of money to pursue corporate goals, which includes purchasing competitors  or companies that could grow into competitors.Facebook\'s $1 billion purchase of Instagram in 2012  then unprofitable and little-known  came as a shock to Wall Street. Two years later came the multibillion-dollar deal to buy WhatsApp, a company that remains unprofitable but has given Facebook a prime portal into developing countries and other regions outside the U.S.In 2014, soon after Facebook bought a virtual reality firm called Oculus, Zuckerberg found himself being grilled in a lawsuit brought by a competitor who accused an Oculus executive of stealing trade secrets. Under questioning, he talked about the pressure he exerted to make the Oculus deal happen, and his vision of growing it so fast "that we can get every developer and studio in the world building just for Oculus before any big competitor exists."Last year, in a bid to free up his fortune for philanthropy, Zuckerberg pushed board members to restructure Facebook\'s stock, allowing him to sell off part of his stake while maintaining control. That prompted a suit by a group of shareholders who argued that the move would benefit only Zuckerberg while diluting the value of other investors\' stakes. Days before Zuckerberg was scheduled to testify as part of the suit, the company dropped the plan.The gambit hints at the complexity of being Zuckerberg, who advocates for transparency and the interests of the community but whose individual interests don\'t always align.The paradox is self-inflicted, the trade-off for creating a venture premised on users\' willingness to share details of their lives. That requires Zuckerberg, who has 105 million Facebook "friends," to reveal far more about himself than would be expected of any other CEO, whether its photos of him and Chan baking sweets for the Jewish holiday of Purim or dressing their daughters for the Chinese New Year.Yet he fiercely guards his privacy.When calls went out last year for Zuckerberg to testify before a Senate committee, the company sent its lawyer. And when he and Chan bought 700 acres on the Hawaiian island of Kauai last year, they quietly filed lawsuits against hundreds of Hawaiians  withdrawn after protests  that would have cut off locals\' access to the land by negating their interest in small ancestral tracts within the estate\'s boundaries."Intellectually, he believes in transparency," Kirkpatrick said. "But emotionally, it\'s very difficult for him."____Facebook works hard to present Zuckerberg as someone deeply interested in the ordinary people whose lives are at the heart of its business.Stops on last year\'s U.S. tour, never announced, were set up by facilitators who revealed details to only a select few. But many of the visits were covered by the media and documented in professional-quality photos on Zuckerberg\'s Facebook page soon after he\'d departed.Ostensibly, the idea was for Zuckerberg to learn. But in their brief interactions, many people were just as interested in finding a way to connect with him.In Hazard, Kentucky, educator Paul Green became custodian of the small town\'s biggest secret. A staffer from Zuckerberg\'s foundation, peppering Green with questions about the region\'s educational cooperative, finally admitted it was because the CEO himself wanted to visit. Green\'s reward for keeping it quiet was seeing the wide-eyed grins when Zuckerberg pulled up and greeted local high schoolers studying robotics and programming.Walking through science demonstrations, Zuckerberg spent more time trading tech tales with the teenagers than quizzing the teachers."He just lit up with those kids," Green said. "The way he talked with them about some of the things he did when he was in school and his passion for technology, it really was cool."When Zuckerberg toured an oil rig near Williston, North Dakota, last July, "from the minute he got out of the car to the minute he got back in the car, he was nothing but questions," said Ron Ness, president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council, which arranged the visit."I had Bakken shale, limestone, dolomite, and he was able to hold them in his hand, along with a bottle of crude oil. And I remember him asking, \'How do you get that oil out of that rock?\'" geologist Kathleen Neset said.In Dayton, Ohio, Zuckerberg met with officials, caregivers and families battling drug addiction. Lori Erion, the founder of the group Families of Addicts, said she told him what it was like to learn her daughter, April, had shot up heroin in their own home."It seemed to get him really emotional," Erion said, recalling how Zuckerberg stood up suddenly and told the group he needed a few minutes to steady himself. When he returned, he asked what makes an addict stay clean and how families got their loved ones into treatment."We didn\'t ever talk about Facebook at all," Erion said, "which is really interesting because Facebook is really the main way of us getting information out. He really was just like a regular person."___As Zuckerberg connected with Americans face-to-face, controversy over Facebook continued to spiral.Shortly before the election, McNamee sent a letter to Zuckerberg and Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warning that Facebook was being manipulated in ways its creators never intended. It wasn\'t just about the U.S. election: A consulting firm had collected data on people interested in the Black Lives Matter movement and sold it to police departments, and critics had detected a well-organized, clandestine campaign supporting Brexit.All this pointed to a deep problem with Facebook  that it was simply not equipped or not willing to prevent the misuse of its platform.McNamee said he has been disappointed in the incremental changes announced since.Facebook has adopted this "libertarian philosophy that says \'we are not responsible for anything downstream, we are allowed to disrupt media, we are allowed to addict our users and we are not responsible for any of the consequences of any of that,\'" he said.Zuckerberg could change that. But McNamee said it is not enough to hire thousands of workers to weed through fake and abusive posts if those posts keep getting through. And tweaking Facebook\'s newsfeed so users see more posts from families and friends does not address his certainty that the algorithms underlying Facebook make it dangerously addictive."You cannot cure addiction by doing more of the thing that got you addicted in the first place, which is what Zuck recommends," McNamee wrote in an email.Critics say Facebook continues to ignore the possibility of the social network being used for dark purposes, but Zuckerberg\'s supporters counter that he is unfairly blamed for problems he could not have foreseen.Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, credits Zuckerberg with leading Facebook through a shift in mindset, making changes that will nudge users into a more positive virtual environment  without completely shutting out inflammatory content."Facebook basically is saying we enable people based on the way they behave. That\'s a very democratic argument. If people want to live in filter bubbles, who are we to say \'Don\'t live in filter bubbles,\' even though we don\'t want them to?" Hoffman said.But Kirkpatrick argued that Zuckerberg\'s and Sandberg\'s surety that Facebook has a positive impact on society has blinded them to parallel realities. The company can\'t be fixed, Kirkpatrick said, until Zuckerberg comes to terms with existential threats to the way the social network does business  its potential to negatively affect democracy and the way it hooks in users."There\'s no question in my mind that Mark Zuckerberg is an ethical and responsible human being who wants to do the right thing," he said. "However, I do not think he has yet grasped the gravity with which his service is being perceived to be a socially harmful force all around the world. And I also don\'t think he realizes the extent to which that really is true."McNamee, recalling Zuckerberg as a 22-year-old visionary, said the CEO must be willing to rethink long-held assumptions. But that does not mean he has to abandon building his global community."You\'ve won," McNamee said he would tell Zuckerberg if asked again for his counsel."You\'ve achieved more than your wildest dreams. You\'re a billionaire. Now you have a chance to be a hero."
WASHINGTON   The White House on Monday disputed adult film star Stormy Daniels\' claim that she was threatened to keep quiet over her alleged affair with Donald Trump and said the president continues to deny the relationship.Daniels\' detailed her allegations in a widely watched interview with "60 Minutes" that sparked new legal wrangling between attorneys for the porn star and the president\'s team. A lawyer for Michael Cohen, Trump\'s personal attorney, demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client for suggesting he was involved in her intimidation. Daniels responded by filing a revised federal lawsuit accusing Cohen of defamation.Trump, who frequently takes on his foes in person and on social media, remained uncharacteristically quiet about the matter Monday. He sent a cryptic tweet saying "fake news" has "never been more voluminous or more inaccurate" but it was unclear what exactly he was referring to.Instead, he left the denials to his White House staff. Spokesman Raj Shah declined to say whether the president had watched Daniels\' interview, but said Trump did not believe any of the claims she made."The president strongly, clearly and has consistently denied these underlying claims, and the only person who\'s been inconsistent is the one making the claims," Shah said.But Daniels was on Trump\'s mind this weekend in Palm Beach, Florida, where he had dinner Saturday night with Cohen at his Mar-a-Lago estate.Trump, according to one person who spent time with him, told guests that Daniels now owes him $21 million for breaking her silence, and that every time she talks, she owes him a million more. Trump appeared in good spirits, laughing off the fact that Daniels will be bringing her "Making America Horny Again" strip show to a nearby venue next month, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to disclose private conversations.Mar-a-Lago member Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, told ABC Sunday that Trump told him "much of the Stormy Daniels stuff" is a "political hoax."Trump returned to Washington Sunday night, though first lady Melania Trump stayed behind in Florida. A spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump said she is "focused on being a mom and is quite enjoying spring break at Mar-a-Lago while working on future projects."In her interview, Daniels said she\'d slept with Trump once, shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to the president\'s youngest son.  She also said that a man approached her in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011, when she was with her infant daughter, and threatened her with physical harm if she went public with her story.In a letter late Sunday night, an attorney for Cohen demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client."In truth, Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred," wrote Brent H. Blakely. He said Daniels and her lawyer, Michael Avenatti, should "cease and desist from making any further false and defamatory statements about my client."Daniels, in the revised lawsuit she filed Monday, alleges Cohen made a false statement that damaged her reputation when he released a statement in February that intimated she was lying.In a round of television interviews Monday morning, Avenatti said he was holding back certain details of the alleged affair, including the contents of a CD or DVD he tweeted a picture of last week, for strategic reasons. "It would make no sense for us to play our hand as to this issue and we\'re not going to do it right now," he said on NBC\'s "Today" show.Daniels received a $130,000 payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement she signed. Cohen has said he paid the $130,000 out of his own pocket while asserting Trump never had sex with the porn actress.Previously, Cohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.During Monday\'s briefing, Shah said neither the White House nor Trump had violated campaign finance laws that restrict political contributions."The White House didn\'t engage in any wrongdoing," Shah said of Trump\'s behavior, adding that there was "nothing to corroborate" Daniels\' intimidation claims.In the interview, Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with him talking about himself and showing her an issue of a magazine with his picture on the cover.She said she ordered him to drop his pants and, in a playful manner, "I just gave him a couple swats." At one point she said he told her: "Wow, you  you are special. You remind me of my daughter."The interview gave "60 Minutes" its biggest audience in a decade, with slightly more than 22 million viewers tuning in, according to Nielsen Co. estimates.Daniels is not the only woman accusing Trump. Former Playboy model Karen McDougal told Cooper in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday that her affair with Trump began at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 2006. McDougal said she ended the relationship in 2007 out of guilt concerning Trump\'s wife, Melania.McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair, but the story never ran. It also alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.___Associated Press writers Ken Thomas, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates   Roadside bombs disguised as rocks in Yemen bear similarities to others used by Hezbollah in southern Lebanon and by insurgents in Iraq and Bahrain, suggesting at the least an Iranian influence in their manufacture, a watchdog group said Monday.The report by Conflict Armament Research comes as the West and United Nations researchers accuse Iran of supplying arms to Yemen\'s Shiite rebels known as Houthis, who have held the country\'s capital since September 2014.Those weapons allegedly included ballistic missiles used to target Saudi Arabia, which leads a military coalition of Arab nations backed by the U.S. that is stuck in a stalemate war with the Houthis. A barrage of Houthi missile fire late Sunday killed one person in Riyadh and wounded two others.Iran has long denied supplying arms to the Houthis, and its mission to the United Nations is dismissing the new report. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif has derided such weapons research as "fabricating evidence."The report is just the latest sign of how the conflict in Yemen, the Arab world\'s poorest country where over 10,000 people have been killed, has changed from a civil war to a proxy fight among Mideast rivals. The Saudi-led war there turned three years old Sunday."What we\'re hoping this does is make plausible deniability not very plausible," said Tim Michetti, head of regional operations for Conflict Armament Research. "You can\'t really deny this anymore once the components these things are made with are traced to Iranian distributors."Michetti\'s organization, an independent watchdog group that receives funding from the United Arab Emirates, Germany and the European Union to research weaponry recovered in Yemen, said it examined a fake rock bomb in January near Mokha, some 250 kilometers (150 miles) southwest of the capital, Sanaa.The fiberglass-encased bomb, packed with explosives, could be armed by radio and triggered by an infrared beam, the group said. It said there were three varieties, including anti-personnel mines and so-called explosively formed projectiles, which can penetrate armored vehicles and were used with lethal effect against U.S. troops following the 2003 invasion of Iraq.Electrical circuitry in the bombs mirrored those manufactured by militants in Bahrain, while the bombs bore markings suggesting one workshop mass-produced the explosives, the report said. Such bombs, however, have yet to be used in Bahrain, an island kingdom off Saudi Arabia in the midst of a crackdown on all dissent.Investigators also found a type of Chinese-manufactured wire covering used in other Iranian materiel, the report said.It said independent experts also examined the explosives. Those experts said that "construction indicates that the bomb maker had a degree of knowledge in constructing devices that resembled, and possibly functioned in a manner similar to (explosively formed projectile bombs) that have been forensically tied to Iran and Hezbollah," the report said.Alireza Miryousefi, a spokesman for Iran\'s mission to the United Nations, dismissed the report, saying the Houthis had no need for such weapons as they control stockpiles of arms purchased under former Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh. The Houthis killed Saleh, their one-time ally, in December."President Saleh was the sweetheart of America and Saudi Arabia," Miryousefi told The Associated Press. "It seems petro-dollars are promoting such reports in order to rationalize war crimes in Yemen as well as the oppression of Bahrain\'s completely civil and popular protests."Told of the Iranian response, Michetti invited officials from Tehran to take part in his organization\'s research in the future.This is not the first time Iran has been accused of arming the Houthis.The U.S. Navy\'s 5th Fleet, based in Bahrain, has repeatedly said Iran sends arms into Yemen. It points to seizures over a four-week period in early 2016, when coalition warships stopped three dhows, traditional ships that ferry cargo in the Persian Gulf.  The dhows carried thousands of Kalashnikov assault rifles as well as sniper rifles, machine guns, rocket-propelled grenade launchers, anti-tank missiles and other weapons.One dhow carried 2,000 new assault rifles with serial numbers in sequential order, suggesting they came from a national stockpile, a previous Conflict Armament Research report said. The rocket-propelled grenade launchers also bore hallmarks of being manufactured in Iran, the group said.The group has also said drones used by the Houthis to crash into Patriot missile batteries in Saudi Arabia share "near-identical design and construction characteristics" of Iranian drones.The weapons transfers also allegedly include ballistic missile technology. The United Nations, Western countries and the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen all say the Houthis\' Burkan or Volcano missile mirrors characteristics of an Iranian Qiam ballistic missile. They say that suggests Tehran either shared the technology or smuggled disassembled missiles to the Houthis who then rebuilt them.Iran denies sharing missiles with the Houthis, though such a move would fit a pattern followed by the Islamic Republic since its 1980s war with Iraq. Iran largely has avoided direct confrontation with its foreign adversaries, instead relying on proxy groups that it arms through the hard-line Revolutionary Guard\'s expeditionary Quds Force or other middlemen.The latest accusation comes as the Saudi-led coalition faces intense international criticism for its airstrike campaign that has struck hospitals and markets, killing numerous civilians. The U.N. also says a Saudi-led blockade on Yemen\'s ports is "essentially using the threat of starvation as a bargaining tool and an instrument of war" in a country already facing diphtheria and cholera outbreaks while on the verge of famine.Iran\'s weapons transfers to Yemen bleed Saudi Arabia, its regional rival, at a low cost while providing deniability for Tehran, analysts say."This has been just a golden opportunity for Iran to have this access and to do it so cheaply and continue to be this thorn in Saudi Arabia\'s throat," said Fatima Abo Alasrar, a senior analyst at the Washington-based Arabia Foundation and a Yemeni national critical of the Houthis. "It\'s been a huge win for them."___Jon Gambrell on Twitter: www.twitter.com/jongambrellap. His work can be found at http://apne.ws/2galNpz.


(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A collective response to Russia, an adult film stars record ratings, and a mysterious train arrives in Beijing. Heres what you need to know:   Sixty diplomats expelled, the Seattle consulate shut.The U.S. joined European allies in kicking out Russian officials over the nerve gas poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter on British soil. Its President Trumps toughest action yet against the Kremlin. Heres how this compares with past espionage feuds.The coordinated response is a win for Britains prime minister, Theresa May, and a show of unity by NATO allies after a year of fraying ties.Separately, Mr. Trump is essentially down to a one-man legal defense team in the Russia investigation after two newly hired lawyers bowed out._____ President Trump has been quiet as two women  a pornographic film star and a Playboy model  have publicly claimed that they had affairs with him, but that doesnt mean hes happy about it. (Melania Trump, too, has been silent.)In a 60 Minutes interview, the porn actress Stormy Daniels, above, said that she and her daughter were threatened in Las Vegas by a man who told her: Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.The actress said the threat influenced her decision to accept $130,000 for her silence about the alleged affair. She is now suing to get out of that agreement.(The 60 Minutes interview drew 22 million viewers, the highest ratings for the program in almost a decade.)_____ An absolute win-win. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin hailed President Trumps first major trade deal: South Korea won an exemption from U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs by agreeing to import more American cars and reducing its steel exports.The deal soothed fears, at least for the moment, about a global trade war. A bigger battle looms over Made in China 2025, Beijings plan to dominate advanced industries._____ Is Kim Jong-un in Beijing?The question emerged after a video showed an old-style green train  similar to one used by used by North Koreas leaders  arriving in the Chinese capital amid high security.There was no official pronouncement from China or North Korea. But the Japanese broadcaster NTV showed footage of what it said was the train, raising the possibility that a powerful envoy or even Mr. Kim himself may be visiting.Journalists also spotted a military honor guard welcoming a convoy that entered the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, above, where top North Korean leaders have been known to stay._____ Hong Kongs housing market is so tight that nano flats, smaller than 200 square feet, are all the rage. (A parking spot just sold for $664,000.)The city is considering some other unusual proposals to ease the squeeze: turning drain pipes into tiny apartments, above, and warehousing people on cruise ships before they get permanent shelter on artificial islands. Uber is out of Southeast Asia. The U.S. company agreed to sell its ride-hailing and food-delivery business in the region to Grab, a rival in Singapore. Uber sold its China operations to Didi in 2016 and retreated from Russia in 2017. Facebook stock fell as much as 6.5 percent after the Federal Trade Commission confirmed it was investigating the companys privacy practices. Remington, the U.S. firearm company founded in 1816, filed for bankruptcy amid mounting debt and slow sales. Alibaba and Ford unveiled an unstaffed car vending machine  five-stories tall and containing 42 cars of various models  in Guangzhou, China. U.S. stocks rose sharply on news of the U.S.-South Korea trade deal. Heres a snapshot of global markets. In Russia, emergency exits were blocked and a security guard had switched off the fire alarm in a shopping mall in Siberia that burned on Sunday, killing at least 64 people, including many children. [The New York Times] Malaysia is considering an anti-fake news bill, with those convicted of disseminating false content facing up to 10 years in prison. [BBC] A U.S. water slide that decapitated a 10-year-old boy violated basic engineering standards, and park officials knew it posed serious dangers, an indictment said. [The New York Times] In Japan, home to the worlds oldest population, prisons have become a haven for lonely older women in search of community and stability. [Bloomberg] A pothole epidemic has turned the streets of Rome, the city that built an empire on its roads, into an embarrassing mess. [The New York Times] An 2,500-year-old Egyptian coffin that had been stored at Sydney University for 150 years was found to be filled with human remains, shocking archaeologists who thought it was empty. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Is it time to give up on fish oil? Not all supplements carry the same health benefits. Whether or not you have kids, creating a will is about your legacy. Recipe of the day: Try a different kind of pizza topped with caramelized onions, figs, bacon and blue cheese. I feel Im in Japan, Vincent van Gogh wrote to his brother, although hed never been there. The Dutch painter, in fact, became obsessed by Japanese art. An exhibition in Amsterdam explores how that fascination shaped his work, like Almond Blossom, above. Is it love if its not on Instagram? In an Op-Ed, a writer questions  and laments  the blurring of peoples personal and online lives. Add your voice: Were preparing our coverage of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who connected his fight for civil rights in the U.S. to the global reality of racism and poverty. Wed like to hear what he means to you.On this day in 1915, Mary Mallon, nicknamed Typhoid Mary, was placed in quarantine for the second time in New York City. Though she never displayed any symptoms of the disease, she would be confined for the rest of her life.In 1906, health officials tied Ms. Mallon to outbreaks of typhoid fever in seven wealthy families for whom she had worked as a cook.She was confirmed to be a carrier of the disease and quarantined. Doctors released her in 1910 under the condition that she no longer work as a cook. Shortly after, she disappeared.Ms. Mallon was rediscovered in 1915 by officials investigating a typhoid outbreak in a Manhattan hospital. She had been working there as a cook under an assumed name.She was then quarantined for 23 years, until her death in 1938 from the effects of a stroke.During her life, the public was fascinated by Ms. Mallon, above. She often appeared in news stories and cartoons, with one depicting her frying skulls in a pan. She was frustrated by the attention, and by her captivity, once describing herself as a peep show for everybody.Her case is often referenced during public health crises, such as the Ebola epidemic, in debates over the power of officials to quarantine people they believe are disease carriers.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Ramon and Farid are getting into numerology. In the session that opens this weeks episode, Wake, Ramon announces that he is quitting work on his video game, Realms, and his doctor beseeches him to continue. I want you to think of your game  specifically, the artistry of your game  as a part of your healing process, Farid says. But he has a hidden motive: He has discovered uncanny parallels between the world Ramon is creating and his own traumatic childhood in Iran. When Farid works himself into a numerological frenzy, connecting the address of his building, the number of his office suite and the nine groups of 11 butterflies in the game to 11:11, its clear hes at least as far gone as Ramon is.As a low-level arithmophobic, I wont pretend to have followed Farids every mathematical leap. But even I have caught on to a simpler numerical pattern in the first season of Here and Now: Every three episodes, toward the end of the hour, Ramon has a vision. In the premiere, it was the candles. Episode 4 closed with the sequence in the abandoned building, where he saw his birth mother. So, in Episode 7, when the sight of someone wearing a surgical mask at the game expo seems to bring on Ramons screaming, trembling, possibly career-killing hallucination of a horde of masked, dust-covered people shuffling toward him like zombies, it fits the pattern.The scene is somewhat novel, in that its the first of Ramons visions (or dreams) that isnt tied in any obvious way to his birth family, Farids past or 11:11. Theres something post-apocalyptic about the apparitions he sees, which also bring to mind the folkloric spirits known as haints that Jamilas family discusses over dinner. Even so, watching Ramon get scared out of his wits by a hallucination every time things seem to be going well for him is starting to get old.Seven episodes in, hes not the only character whose story line is becoming redundant. I know that I complain about Ashley and Duc every week, but every week it gets more frustrating to watch the show keep hammering home the same points about them. In Wake, Ashley questions her marriage to a white man, meets Jamilas mom and continues to stew about her own adoptive mothers accidental, televised defense of white supremacy  all plot points that push her another few inches in the direction of some inevitable revelation about her racial identity.Poor Duc, meanwhile, begins the episode with a colitis flare-up and ends it with a fistfight, using some downtime in between to overexercise and to feel haunted by memories of his birth mother, the prostitute. Hes repressed, you see, and not just sexually. (Lisa Cholodenko, the filmmaker behind great movies like The Kids Are All Right and Laurel Canyon, directed this weeks episode, and I cringed at the thought of her presiding over the scene consisting entirely of Duc on the toilet.)Even Kristen and Navid are starting to go around in circles. Theyve been in the cross hairs of the schools resident mean girl, Madison (Madeline Bertani), for a while now, but the tension escalates when Kristen catches her clique spray-painting swastikas on Navids and other presumably non-Aryan kids lockers. Madison tries to frame Kristen as the Nazi vandal, with a misleading photo that she disseminates as D.I.Y. fake news. At Navids house, he expertly applies makeup to Kristens face as they plot revenge. Everything were dying to find out about them  whether hes attracted to girls, whether they like each other, whether theyre going to become an adorable, gender nonconforming couple  will have to wait at least another week.Also on hold, now that Ramon is trouble again: Audreys slowly escalating reunion with Steve. All the necessary conditions for an affair are in place, from Gregs infidelity to Steves divorce to his eagerness to rescue her from even the mildest inconveniences. (Sometimes Audrey comes across as a compassionate progressive saint; other times, shes spoiled enough to call in her rich, powerful benefactor when a younger colleague asks her to fill out a form.) My guess is that theyll hook up before the season is out, but I also wouldnt be shocked if they came very close to sleeping together, only for Audrey to have an attack of conscience and go back to Greg. Either way, its hard to imagine anything earthshaking coming out of this relationship.I have more hope for Ramon, Farid and, in the increasingly frequent instances when his struggles overlap with theirs, Greg. The numerology stuff may not have done much for me, but its these characters interconnected story lines that continue to raise the most promising questions. Last week, Ramon found out that his boyfriend, Henry, was lying about being homeless. This week, at the funeral of his teaching assistant Michael, Greg learns that Michael was not the young man he presented himself to be. When Greg offers condolences to the dead graduate students new fiance, Emma (Madisen Beaty), she blurts out that shes just relieved she doesnt have to marry that rage-aholic who is always in and out of rehab.Greg is shaken up. I guess you can never really and truly know another person, he muses to Duc. Thats a clich, sure, but at least its a consistently compelling subject for long-form storytelling.Ramons game remains the most original and fascinating element of the show. It is the site of spiritual convergences, from imagery that echoes formative moments from Farids past to Gregs sudden understanding that Realms is not a conventional video game but, as he puts it, a meditation on humanitys struggle with the cruelty of existence. Now that digital flames have inexplicably appeared in the game, it is also starting to resemble a holy text  its a work of art that an ostensibly human creature made with his own hands, but that he cant fully comprehend or control.Ive made this prediction before, and turned out to be wrong, but Wake does give us reason to believe that the plot of Here and Now will finally start accelerating in the seasons last three episodes. There is Farids confession to Ramon, about the scars on Farids back and the four gashes his mother scratched into her face. Theres the introduction of the schizophrenic Uncle Ike (Ted Levine), who senses that, despite Audreys deflections, Everything is not fine.Maybe Ive become too fixated on story when it seems likely that the shows creator, Alan Ball, envisions it as a loosely structured meditation in the same vein as Realms. That would certainly make Here and Now an admirable experiment. But if its going to work as a philosophical treatise and an art object, it has to be every bit as spellbinding as Ramons game.
