
TOPEKA, Kan.   Kansas lawmakers have approved tougher penalties for making false calls to police three months after an officer fatally shot a Wichita man during a deadly hoax emergency call.The Wichita Eagle reports the bill makes fake calls that result in death a felony comparable to second-degree murder. Any false call for emergency help would be at least a misdemeanor, becoming a felony if the caller uses a fake identity or electronically masks their identity.The practice is known as "swatting," and occurs when someone makes a call to police with a false story of an ongoing crime in an attempt to draw a large number of police officers to a particular address.The bill is named the Andrew Finch Act, after the man killed by Wichita police as they responded to a hoax emergency call in December that they thought was a hostage situation. The legislation was championed by his mother, Lisa Finch."Perhaps passing this bill will give her a little bit of peace," Sen. Lynn Rogers, D-Wichita,The bill is headed to Gov. Jeff Colyer after the Legislature passed it on Tuesday. The Senate approved House Bill 2581 on a 40-0 vote. The House approved it unanimously in February. The governor has 10 days after receiving legislation to sign or veto it.Rogers read a statement from Lisa Finch on the Senate floor: "He loved his children the most and he was dedicated to making sure his family and the others he let into his life were comfortable and felt safe. He was everyone\'s protector."Tyler Barriss, 25, of Los Angeles, has been charged with manslaughter in Finch\'s death for allegedly making the bogus call.
VATICAN CITY   Pope Francis met Tuesday with Emeritus Pope Benedict XVI in the first known contact between the two, following a major gaffe by Francis\' communications chief over his misrepresentation of a letter from the retired pontiff.The Vatican press office said Francis called on Benedict to bring him Easter greetings.The meeting, however, came a week after Francis\' hand-picked communications czar, Monsignor Dario Vigano, was forced to resign over the so-called Lettergate scandal.Vigano partially revealed the contents of a private letter from Benedict to make it seem as if he endorsed a new Vatican-published volume of 11 books about Francis\' theology, which Vigano had launched on the eve of Francis\' fifth anniversary as pope.Vigano then had a photo of the letter doctored to blur out Benedict\'s full text, in which he said he hadn\'t read the books, wouldn\'t read them because he didn\'t have time and objected to one of the 11 authors. The author, German theologian Peter Huenermann, had launched "virulent" attacks against his papacy and that of St. John Paul II, Benedict wrote.The scandal led to accusations the Vatican was spreading "fake news," just weeks after Francis dedicated his annual media message to the fight against "fake news" and the intentional distortion of information. And it produced the exact opposite of Vigano\'s desired effect to establish Francis\' theological bonafides, showing that the retired pope  one of the most respected theologians today  wouldn\'t endorse the project.The Vatican spokesman declined to provide any further details of the Francis-Benedict meeting, other than to say that the two occasionally meet.But Vigano\'s letter of resignation was notable for the absence of any acknowledgment of wrongdoing, or any apology to Benedict for having misrepresented the contents of his letter, which had been marked "Private-Reserved."Francis\' letter in accepting Vigano\'s resignation was similarly devoid of any criticism, and in fact he kept Vigano on in the Secretariat for Communications in the new job of "assessor."
LONDON   The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):11:30 p.m.Published reports say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is planning to testify before Congress about how his company collects and uses people\'s data.CNN is citing unnamed sources in a report Tuesday that Zuckerberg has "come to terms" with the fact that he\'ll have to testify in a matter of weeks. A Facebook representative said the company has received invitations to appear before congress and is talking to legislators.Zuckerberg said last week in a CNN interview that he\'d be "happy to" testify if he is the right person to do it. The company is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that a data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections.___2 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is snubbing a summons from a British Parliamentary committee investigating the rise of fake news, offering to send senior executives in his place.Damian Collins, chairman of Parliament\'s media committee, urged Zuckerberg to "think again" Tuesday about choosing not to appear and repeated an offer to have him testify via video link.Facebook has offered to send chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer or chief product officer Chris Cox.Zuckerberg is also under pressure to appear before U.S. Congress following allegations that consultants Cambridge Analytica harvested details of 50 million Facebook users and used the material in U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 election.___1:50 p.m.The computer expert who sparked a global debate over electronic privacy has told lawmakers that the official campaign backing Britain\'s exit from the European Union had access to data that was inappropriately collected from millions of Facebook users.Christopher Wylie previously alleged that Cambridge Analytica used data harvested from more than 50 million Facebook users to help U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 election campaign.Wylie told the House of Commons\' media committee on Tuesday that he "absolutely" believed Canadian campaign consultant AggregateIQ had drawn on Cambridge Analytica\'s databases for its work on the EU referendum.He told the committee: "You can\'t have targeting software that doesn\'t access the database. Cambridge Analytica would have a database and AIQ would access that database, otherwise the software wouldn\'t work."___9:55 a.m.The whistleblower at the heart of the Facebook privacy scandal is set to testify before British lawmakers investigating the increasing rise of fake news.Christopher Wylie has alleged that Cambridge Analytica harvested details of 50 million Facebook users and used the material in U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 election campaign. It is alleged the material made it possible to micro-target users with campaign material.At a news conference on Monday on a linked issue, Wylie declined to answer questions about whether the data was also used in Britain by the campaign to leave the European Union. He said he would discuss the matter when he spoke to lawmakers from Parliament\'s media committee on Tuesday.
One was Photoshopped tearing up the Constitution  a falsehood  and criticized for wearing a flag that represented her Cuban heritage.A conservative blog said that another wasnt even at the school during the killings  then had to backtrack on Monday when that also proved false.The attacks on the teenage survivors of the shooting in Parkland, Fla., have been fierce from the beginning, and have only continued since the students helped spearhead hundreds of protests this weekend.Two of the most vocal survivors, Emma Gonzlez, 18, and David Hogg, 17, have been targets of a disproportionate amount of vitriol.In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Hogg said they had been singled out because of their prominence and emphasized that ad hominem attacks would not end school shootings.I mean, were kind of the faces of the movement, he said. Together we kind of form an unstoppable force that terrifies them.He added that he and Ms. Gonzlez were being attacked because they know were strong.Here are a few of the recent attempts to discredit the students.RedState, a conservative blog, ran an update Monday evening to a story it had published that questioned whether Mr. Hogg was present at Marjory Stoneman Douglas during the day of the shooting.Sarah Rumpf, a writer for RedState, had questioned Mr. Hogg after watching an interview where he said he rode his bike to the school on the day of the shooting to interview his classmates.The bike trip was described in a Vox article written in February. It indicated that Mr. Hogg had been at school during the shooting, as widely confirmed by many news organizations. He had left campus and then rode his bike back that evening to interview classmates.Video has shown that Mr. Hogg was in a closet during the shooting. Ms. Rumpf eventually found the article and video, and apologized.RedState struck through the old article, but did not describe the update as a correction, seeming to blame the misinformation on confusing reports elsewhere. The false report was spread by well-known conservatives, including Erick Erickson, who has contributed to The New York Times opinion section. Mr. Erickson later deleted his original tweet.The doctored image of Ms. Gonzlez ripping apart the Constitution of the United States, began to spread during the march on Saturday. It was falsified from a Teen Vogue image in which she was pictured ripping apart a paper shooting target.The image, which exists in a gray area between meme and misinformation, was promoted on Gab, the alt-right alternative to Twitter, and by the right-wing actor Adam Baldwin.Some claimed the image to be satire, and similar memes of President Trump and other political figures appear across the spectrum. But the political scientist Emily Thorson has pointed out that their spread contributes to a climate of misinformation, even if those who see the images understand them to be fake.Steve King, the Republican congressman from Iowa, posted on Facebook about the Cuban flag sewn to Ms. Gonzlezs jacket.This is how you look when you claim Cuban heritage yet dont speak Spanish, the post said, and ignore the fact that your ancestors fled the island when the dictatorship turned Cuba into a prison camp, after removing all weapons from its citizens; hence their right to self-defense. It showed an image of her with the flag patch visible on her jacket.The post and similar ones angered other survivors of gun violence and even some of Mr. Kings fellow conservatives, who pointed out that the Cuban flag has long been used by dissidents from the Castro regime.Ms. Gonzlez retweeted Mr. Hoggs response to Mr. King: Shes a beautiful woman of Cuban descent and we love her. You would too if you ever got the chance to meet her.She also retweeted another of Mr. Hoggs tweets, which called on Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican of Florida of Cuban descent, to respond to Mr. King.The conservative writer and commentator Dan McLaughlin suggested that reporters ask Ms. Gonzlez what the flag means to her and why she wears it. She did not respond to a call Tuesday.Many attacks on the Parkland students do not even pretend to focus on issues or substance. They include the false conspiracy trope that the students are paid actors. Sometimes their appearances and intelligence are mocked, including their efforts to get accepted to colleges this spring.On Sunday, the conservative podcaster and vocal Trump supporter Bill Mitchell referred to Mr. Hogg as a Damien, Children of the Corn, Hitler-Youth type on Twitter.The vitriol has sometimes backfired. A Republican candidate for the Maine State House dropped out of the race after calling Ms. Gonzlez a skinhead lesbian and Mr. Hogg a moron and a baldfaced liar.In a Tuesday interview, Nicole Hockley, whose young son Dylan was killed in the 2012 school shooting in Newtown, Conn., advised the students to ignore the attacks as much as possible. She recalled that she had faced conspiracy theories and personal attacks after her 6-year-old son was killed along with 19 other first graders at Sandy Hook Elementary School.She remembered how that felt: All Im trying to do is make it so this doesnt happen to other people and youre attacking me without a lot of basis.She said that it was also important to hear rational criticism when trying to find common ground on the issues.When dealing with more reasonable opponents and critics she tries to de-escalate the conversations, she said, to learn more about what they think and educate them about her views.Sometimes theres a new perspective that I havent considered, she said, though she rarely finds such views persuasive. Still, she said, those conversations can bear a lot of fruit.
As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg landed on a fishing trawler off Alabama\'s Gulf coast.But the chatter surrounding the CEO\'s arrival in port was that it signaled something bigger than just the start of a 30-state personal tour: his designs on a job even more powerful than leading the social network that links 2.2 billion people worldwide."I asked him if he was interested in running for president of the United States," said Dominick Ficarino, who owns a shrimp business in Bayou La Batre, Alabama, and hosted Zuckerberg that afternoon. "And his answer to me was: \'Can I answer you with a question? If you were me, would you?\'"Thirteen months later, Zuckerberg no longer has the luxury of mulling a hypothetical next act. Instead, he is grappling with a crisis that has enveloped the company synonymous with his face and name. It does not help that the most glaring reminder of Facebook\'s flaws is the unabated uproar over the American presidency itself."The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do," Zuckerberg wrote in January, laying out his annual "personal challenge."In 2017, the billionaire sought to travel to every state he\'d never visited. This year, Zuckerberg said his personal goal is to "fix" Facebook.Yet things continue to get worse. Scrutiny of Facebook has intensified following reports that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users  possibly used to aid Donald Trump\'s campaign  and that the social network has been collecting Android users\' phone call and text message histories without notice. That adds to criticism that Facebook manipulates its users and has allowed Russian bots to divide Americans by spreading false information.On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating Facebook for its privacy practices.Zuckerberg preaches transparency, but flinches at questioning. He is undeniably brilliant, but stubborn about acknowledging the extent of Facebook\'s problems.Is he prepared to do all it will take the right the ship?"If he fails to do it, it may take a while but eventually people are going to rebel," said Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor and adviser who has become a pointed critic."I thought Facebook was a force for good in the world for a really long time," McNamee said. "I think it\'s really hard to make that case today."Days after Trump\'s election, Zuckerberg was pressed on the possibility that foreign agents had used his social network to divide voters."The idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way, I think, is a pretty crazy idea," the CEO said at a technology conference."I think all of us were shocked to learn how wrong he was," said David Kirkpatrick, the author of a 2010 book about Facebook who questioned Zuckerberg that day.Zuckerberg walked back the remark soon after, continuing a years-long routine of self-correction. But errors that reflect his stubbornness, those who know him say, are tempered by an eagerness to learn and a deep sense of reflection.Naomi Gleit, Facebook\'s longest-serving employee after the CEO, said Zuckerberg  who declined an interview request from The Associated Press  has talked about making the world a better place since he was 21. But his view of his place in that world seemed like "a burden of responsibility," she said.With Zuckerberg, "its experiment, learn, experiment, learn," said LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who has known him since 2004.But in the process of learning, Zuckerberg\'s inexperience has sometimes played out in public view, such as when he donated $100 million to Newark, New Jersey, schools in 2010 with few specifics outlining how the money should be spent."He was just a very young, naive, inexperienced guy who was brilliant ... but just really didn\'t know much about how the world worked," said Dale Russakoff, author of "The Prize," a book chronicling the Newark experiment.Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan, have since chartered their own foundation to take on mammoth goals, like a $3 billion investment to cure, prevent or manage all diseases.To free up his fortune for philanthropy, Zuckerberg last year pushed board members to restructure Facebook\'s stock, allowing him to sell off part of his stake while maintaining control. That prompted a suit by a group of shareholders who argued that the move would benefit only Zuckerberg while diluting the value of other investors\' stakes. The company dropped the plan.The gambit hints at the complexity of being Zuckerberg, who advocates for transparency and community but whose individual interests don\'t always align.Zuckerberg, who has 105 million Facebook "friends," is compelled to share far more about himself than would be expected of another CEO. Yet he fiercely guards his privacy."Intellectually, he believes in transparency," Kirkpatrick said. "But emotionally, it\'s very difficult for him."Shortly before the 2016 election, McNamee sent a letter to Zuckerberg and Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warning the company was being manipulated in ways its creators never intended. It wasn\'t just about the U.S. election: A consulting firm had collected data on people interested in the Black Lives Matter movement and sold it to police departments, and critics had detected a well-organized, clandestine campaign supporting Brexit.McNamee said he has been disappointed in the incremental changes announced since, but Zuckerberg\'s supporters say he is unfairly blamed.Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, credits him with leading Facebook through a shift in mindset, nudging users into a more positive virtual environment  without completely shutting out inflammatory content.Kirkpatrick argues, though, that Zuckerberg still must deal with existential threats to Facebook\'s business  its potential to negatively affect democracy and the way it hooks in users."I do not think he has yet grasped the gravity with which his service is being perceived to be a socially harmful force all around the world. And I also don\'t think he realizes the extent to which that really is true."McNamee, recalling Zuckerberg as a 22-year-old visionary, said the CEO must be willing to rethink long-held assumptions. But that does not mean he has to abandon building his global community."You\'ve achieved more than your wildest dreams," McNamee said he would tell Zuckerberg if asked again for his counsel. "You\'re a billionaire. Now you have a chance to be a hero."
WASHINGTON   The White House is disputing adult film star Stormy Daniels\' claim that she was threatened to keep quiet over her alleged affair with Donald Trump and said the president continues to deny the relationship.Daniels\' detailed her allegations in a widely watched interview with "60 Minutes" that sparked new legal wrangling between attorneys for the porn star and the president\'s team. A lawyer for Michael Cohen, Trump\'s personal attorney, demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client for suggesting he was involved in her intimidation. Daniels responded by filing a revised federal lawsuit accusing Cohen of defamation.Trump, who frequently takes on his foes in person and on social media, remained uncharacteristically quiet about the matter Monday. He sent a cryptic tweet saying "fake news" has "never been more voluminous or more inaccurate" but it was unclear what exactly he was referring to.Instead, he left the denials to his White House staff. Spokesman Raj Shah declined to say whether the president had watched Daniels\' interview, but said Trump did not believe any of the claims she made."The president strongly, clearly and has consistently denied these underlying claims, and the only person who\'s been inconsistent is the one making the claims," Shah said.But Daniels was on Trump\'s mind this weekend in Palm Beach, Florida, where he had dinner Saturday night with Cohen at his Mar-a-Lago estate.Trump, according to one person who spent time with him, told guests that Daniels now owes him $21 million for breaking her silence, and that every time she talks, she owes him a million more. Trump appeared in good spirits, laughing off the fact that Daniels will be bringing her "Making America Horny Again" strip show to a nearby venue next month, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to disclose private conversations.Mar-a-Lago member Chris Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax, told ABC Sunday that Trump told him "much of the Stormy Daniels stuff" is a "political hoax."Trump returned to Washington Sunday night, though first lady Melania Trump stayed behind in Florida. A spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump said she is "focused on being a mom and is quite enjoying spring break at Mar-a-Lago while working on future projects."In her interview, Daniels said she\'d slept with Trump once, shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to the president\'s youngest son.  She also said that a man approached her in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011, when she was with her infant daughter, and threatened her with physical harm if she went public with her story.In a letter late Sunday night, an attorney for Cohen demanded that Daniels publicly apologize to his client."In truth, Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident, and does not even believe that any such person exists, or that such incident ever occurred," wrote Brent H. Blakely. He said Daniels and her lawyer, Michael Avenatti, should "cease and desist from making any further false and defamatory statements about my client."Daniels, in the revised lawsuit she filed Monday, alleges Cohen made a false statement that damaged her reputation when he released a statement in February that intimated she was lying.In a round of television interviews Monday morning, Avenatti said he was holding back certain details of the alleged affair, including the contents of a CD or DVD he tweeted a picture of last week, for strategic reasons. "It would make no sense for us to play our hand as to this issue and we\'re not going to do it right now," he said on NBC\'s "Today" show.Daniels received a $130,000 payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement she signed. Cohen has said he paid the $130,000 out of his own pocket while asserting Trump never had sex with the porn actress.Previously, Cohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment.During Monday\'s briefing, Shah said neither the White House nor Trump had violated campaign finance laws that restrict political contributions."The White House didn\'t engage in any wrongdoing," Shah said of Trump\'s behavior, adding that there was "nothing to corroborate" Daniels\' intimidation claims.In the interview, Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with him talking about himself and showing her an issue of a magazine with his picture on the cover.She said she ordered him to drop his pants and, in a playful manner, "I just gave him a couple swats." At one point she said he told her: "Wow, you  you are special. You remind me of my daughter."The interview gave "60 Minutes" its biggest audience in a decade, with slightly more than 22 million viewers tuning in, according to Nielsen Co. estimates.Daniels is not the only woman accusing Trump. Former Playboy model Karen McDougal told Cooper in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday that her affair with Trump began at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 2006. McDougal said she ended the relationship in 2007 out of guilt concerning Trump\'s wife, Melania.McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc., the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election.The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair, but the story never ran. It also alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.___Associated Press writers Ken Thomas, Kevin Freking and Zeke Miller contributed to this report.___
She was a brain researcher and an authority on the scientific basis of love. He, too, was a neuroscientist, but with an expertise in loneliness. She was in her mid-30s, he in his late 50s.Both were wedded to careers in separate hemispheres  until they happened to be seated beside each other, serendipitously, at dinner on the last night of a neuroscience research symposium in Shanghai.Before going their separate ways, they left the restaurant together. A romantic full moon was rising over the East China Sea. He snapped a photograph. A few weeks later, she emailed him to request a copy (which she later admitted was just a pretext to resume their brief acquaintance).She, Stephanie Ortigue, was conducting research at the University of Geneva in Switzerland at the time. He, John T. Cacioppo, was doing the same at the University of Chicago. They timed their sporadic subsequent dates to coincide with other scientific conferences.She fell in love. He felt lonely without her. Within eight months they were engaged. In 2011, they married.She took her husbands name and joined him at the University of Chicago at the Pritzker School of Medicine. They not only shared the same office (the sign on the door said The Cacioppos) but also the same desk. They collaborated on more than a dozen articles about the neurology of social connections. In 2015, when he developed salivary gland cancer, they slept in the same hospital bed, in matching hospital gowns.Dr. John Cacioppo died on March 5 at home in Chicago. He was 66. His wife said the cause had not yet been determined.Dr. Cacioppo (pronounced kass-ee-OH-po) and his Ohio State University colleague Gary Berntson were, in the early 1990s, the founding fathers of what they called social neuroscience.A new academic domain, it bridged biology and psychology and was inspired, Dr. Cacioppo once explained, by an insight he had after surviving a near-fatal car crash: that love and social connections are what really matter in life.He likened loneliness to hunger, explaining that it helps naturally gregarious humans establish mutually beneficial relationships that meet social needs vital to survival.He estimated that about one in four Americans are lonely, without any confidants, and that social isolation results in negative emotional and physical consequences.Chronic loneliness increases the odds of an early death by 20 percent, Dr. Cacioppo told The Guardian in 2016, which is about the same effect as obesity, though obesity does not make you as miserable as loneliness. (Although, he pointed out, loneliness can also make you gain weight if you binge on sweets to ease your misery.)He drew a distinction between loneliness and being alone.In animals, its not separating a monkey from any companion; its separating them from a preferred companion, he said in an interview last year with The Atlantic magazine. Being with others doesnt mean youre going to feel connected, and being alone doesnt mean youre going to feel lonely.Indeed, he said, having fewer social connections can sometimes be healthier.Millionaires, billionaires tend to feel lonely, Dr. Cacioppo said. A lot of athletes often feel lonely. Lots of people want to be their friend, but how would you feel if all the people who want to be your friend, you had the alternative interpretation  that they want material or social benefits that you could give them.At his death, Dr. Cacioppo was a psychology professor at the University of Chicago, director of the universitys Center for Cognitive and Social Neuroscience and chairman of the Social Psychology Program.He received scores of awards, was the author of hundreds of articles and more than a dozen books, including his seminal Loneliness: Human Nature and the Need for Social Connections (2008), which he wrote with William Patrick.He is a creative genius whose cumulative accomplishments are so inseparable from the field that it is hard to imagine contemporary psychology without him, said another collaborator at Ohio State, Professor Richard E. Petty.Professor Amanda Woodward, interim dean of the Division of Social Sciences at the University of Chicago, said Dr. Cacioppo had an uncommon genius  he was a brilliant scientist and was unique in his ability to see deep connections across diverse fields and to create generative new theoretical frameworks.John Terrence Cacioppo was born on June 12, 1951, in Marshall Tex., to Cyrus Cacioppo and the former Mary Katherine Kazimour. His parents owned several businesses, including a chain saw distribution company.A math prodigy in high school, Dr. Cacioppo was the first in his family to attend college. He received a bachelor of science degree in economics in 1973 from the University of Missouri, where a chance meeting with a psychology professor persuaded him to abandon a law career and pursue a doctorate in social psychology at Ohio State; he received his in 1977.He and Richard Petty, who was also a first-year graduate student at the time, engaged in so many intellectual arguments that they became roommates, painted an entire wall black and used it to map competing postulates.After teaching at the University of Notre Dame and the University of Iowa, he returned to Ohio State in 1989, joined a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation research network in 1995 and the University of Chicago faculty in 1999.In addition to his wife, Dr. Stephanie Cacioppo, director of the Brain Dynamics Laboratory at the University of Chicago and a research professor at the Center for Cognitive and Social Neuroscience there, he is survived by two children, Anthony and Christina, both from an earlier marriage, which ended in divorce.The social neuroscience first defined by Dr. Cacioppo and Professor Berntson spawned research into the impact of personal relationships on physiology, including cognition, emotions and physical health.Dr. Cacioppo cautioned that confiding to a psychotherapist was not a substitute for having friends and companions.Being just a client of a psychotherapist fulfills some needs, he said, but it doesnt fulfill that real need to have a rich reciprocal bond.Similarly, he said the internets role in forming social connections depends on whether a website becomes just a destination.If the only acceptance you can get of yourself is a fake representation on the web, thats not going to make you feel connected, he said. But if you look at online dating, there youre using it to meet other people, so not surprisingly that tends to be associated with lower levels of loneliness.Dr. Stephanie Cacioppo agreed that loneliness and being alone are different.I think we both had come to be real fans of loneliness before we met each other, she wrote in an email on Monday. As John would say, and I agreed with him: If you think about what our species would be like without loneliness, it would not be nearly as endearing a species. Loneliness, which compels us to bond with others, gives us what we call Humanity. When her husband was sick, she was quoted as saying last year in a Modern Love column in The New York Times, As a couple, we became more united than ever.She wrote on Monday: I did not know what true love was until I met my husband. John taught me what true love really means. And now, thanks to my husband, I am on the verge of knowing what true eternal love is.
As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg\'s to-do list landed him on a fishing trawler off Alabama\'s Gulf coast.But the chatter surrounding the CEO\'s arrival in port was that it signaled something bigger than just the start of a 30-state personal tour: his designs on a job even more powerful than leading the social network that links 2.2 billion people worldwide."It was one of the last things I asked him, thinking it would put a smile on his face  and it did," said Dominick Ficarino, who owns a shrimp business in Bayou La Batre, Alabama, and hosted a dockside lunch for Zuckerberg that Sunday afternoon."I asked him if he was interested in running for president of the United States. And his answer to me was: \'Can I answer you with a question? If you were me, would you?\'"Thirteen months later, Zuckerberg no longer has the luxury of mulling a hypothetical next act. Instead, he is grappling with a crisis that has enveloped the company synonymous with his face and name. It does not help that the most glaring reminder of Facebook\'s flaws is the unabated uproar over the American presidency itself."The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do," Zuckerberg wrote in January, laying out the "personal challenge" that he sets for himself each year.In 2017, the billionaire challenged himself to travel to every state he\'d never visited. This year, long after critics began demanding an overhaul, Zuckerberg said his personal goal is to "fix" the platform that he has engineered to build community  but that is increasingly blamed for warping it.Yet things continue to get worse. Scrutiny of Facebook has intensified following reports that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users  possibly used to aid Donald Trump\'s campaign  and that the social network has been collecting Android users\' phone call and text message histories without notice. That adds to criticism that Facebook manipulates its users and has allowed Russian bots to divide Americans by spreading false information.On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating Facebook for its privacy practices.Throughout the mounting crisis, Zuckerberg\'s response has been a study in contradictions. He crisscrossed the country, even as his company back home came under increasing fire. He preaches transparency, but flinches at questioning and craves privacy. He is undeniably brilliant, but stubborn in his reluctance to acknowledge the extent of Facebook\'s problems.Even his critics say he is uniquely capable of righting the ship. But at 33, is he prepared to do all it will take?"If he fails to do it, it may take a while but eventually people are going to rebel," said Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor and adviser who has become one of the company\'s most pointed critics."I thought Facebook was a force for good in the world for a really long time," McNamee said. "I think it\'s really hard to make that case today."___Days after Trump\'s election, Zuckerberg was pressed on the possibility that foreign agents had used his social network to divide voters."The idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way, I think, is a pretty crazy idea," the CEO told the audience at a California technology conference."I think all of us were shocked to learn how wrong he was," said David Kirkpatrick, the author of a 2010 book about Facebook who questioned Zuckerberg that day. "You can certainly say that he was culpable, in that he was naive and inattentive to what was happening in his system. But I don\'t think he was lying."Zuckerberg walked back the remark soon after, continuing a years-long routine of self-correction. But errors that reflect his stubbornness, those who know him say, are tempered by an eagerness to learn from mistakes and a deep sense of reflection.Donald Graham, the former chairman of the Washington Post Co., recalled that when he met Zuckerberg in 2005, outsiders still weren\'t sure what to make of Facebook."I would ask him a question and he would pause long enough  15 seconds, 20 seconds  that I would think \'Did I insult him? Did he not hear me?\'" said Graham, who went on to serve on the company\'s board from 2008 to 2015."Since I am from Washington, I\'m not used to people thinking before they are answering a question. ... But Mark, then as now, was thinking about the right answer."Zuckerberg\'s boyish appearance, even today, is a reminder of just how young he was when he created what would become the world\'s biggest social network, back in his dorm room at Harvard."I didn\'t know anything about building a company or global internet service," he wrote in January. "Over the years I\'ve made almost every mistake you can imagine."Naomi Gleit, Facebook\'s longest-serving employee after the CEO, said Zuckerberg  who declined an interview request from The Associated Press  has been talking about making the world a better place since he was 21. But his view of that world and his place in it "seemed almost like a gravity, a burden of responsibility," she said.That seriousness coincides with a sense of certainty.Gleit recalled Zuckerberg\'s steadfast attachment to a Facebook message service similar to email, even as more people began using phones to send text messages. But co-workers eventually swayed the CEO, whom she described as a "learn-it-all." That change-of-mind informed Facebook\'s 2014 purchase of the WhatsApp messaging service for $19 billion."I think he would even say now that he was initially wrong," Gleit said.With Zuckerberg, "it\'s experiment, learn, experiment, learn," said LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who has known him since 2004. Hoffman said that is evident in Zuckerberg\'s enthusiasm for software, which can be overwritten to fix problems. That facility, he said, makes Zuckerberg the equal of executives with far more experience.But in the process of learning, Zuckerberg\'s inexperience has sometimes played out in public view.___In 2010, Zuckerberg announced on Oprah Winfrey\'s television show that he would donate $100 million to schools in Newark, New Jersey.Critics labeled it an attempt to polish his image, just as the biopic "The Social Network" was being released. Still, there was little questioning his generosity. The problem was that Zuckerberg  who knew little about education  made the gift with few specifics outlining how it should be spent."He was just a very young, naive, inexperienced guy who was brilliant at technology and computers and the internet, but just really didn\'t know much about how the world worked," said Dale Russakoff, author of "The Prize," a book chronicling how the money went to high-priced consultants, with minimal effort by leaders to build community support.By the end of the process, Zuckerberg had developed a clearer understanding of how to get things done. He and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, have since chartered their own foundation and structured it to take on mammoth goals, like a $3 billion investment to cure, prevent or manage all diseases. He has pledged to donate 99 percent of his Facebook stock to philanthropy."Zuck\'s maturation has occurred in front of the public," said Kirkpatrick, author of "The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that Is Connecting the World." \'\'But he also still lives with the consequences of the decisions he made when he was less mature."At Facebook, Zuckerberg has grown increasingly bold in using huge sums of money to pursue corporate goals, which includes purchasing competitors  or companies that could grow into competitors.Facebook\'s $1 billion purchase of Instagram in 2012  then unprofitable and little-known  came as a shock to Wall Street. Two years later came the multibillion-dollar deal to buy WhatsApp, a company that remains unprofitable but has given Facebook a prime portal into developing countries and other regions outside the U.S.In 2014, soon after Facebook bought a virtual reality firm called Oculus, Zuckerberg found himself being grilled in a lawsuit brought by a competitor who accused an Oculus executive of stealing trade secrets. Under questioning, he talked about the pressure he exerted to make the Oculus deal happen, and his vision of growing it so fast "that we can get every developer and studio in the world building just for Oculus before any big competitor exists."Last year, in a bid to free up his fortune for philanthropy, Zuckerberg pushed board members to restructure Facebook\'s stock, allowing him to sell off part of his stake while maintaining control. That prompted a suit by a group of shareholders who argued that the move would benefit only Zuckerberg while diluting the value of other investors\' stakes. Days before Zuckerberg was scheduled to testify as part of the suit, the company dropped the plan.The gambit hints at the complexity of being Zuckerberg, who advocates for transparency and the interests of the community but whose individual interests don\'t always align.The paradox is self-inflicted, the trade-off for creating a venture premised on users\' willingness to share details of their lives. That requires Zuckerberg, who has 105 million Facebook "friends," to reveal far more about himself than would be expected of any other CEO, whether it\'s photos of him and Chan baking sweets for the Jewish holiday of Purim or dressing their daughters for the Chinese New Year.Yet he fiercely guards his privacy.When calls went out last year for Zuckerberg to testify before a Senate committee, the company sent its lawyer. And when he and Chan bought 700 acres on the Hawaiian island of Kauai last year, they quietly filed lawsuits against hundreds of Hawaiians  withdrawn after protests  that would have cut off locals\' access to the land by negating their interest in small ancestral tracts within the estate\'s boundaries."Intellectually, he believes in transparency," Kirkpatrick said. "But emotionally, it\'s very difficult for him."____Facebook works hard to present Zuckerberg as someone deeply interested in the ordinary people whose lives are at the heart of its business.Stops on last year\'s U.S. tour, never announced, were set up by facilitators who revealed details to only a select few. But many of the visits were covered by the media and documented in professional-quality photos on Zuckerberg\'s Facebook page soon after he\'d departed.Ostensibly, the idea was for Zuckerberg to learn. But in their brief interactions, many people were just as interested in finding a way to connect with him.In Hazard, Kentucky, educator Paul Green became custodian of the small town\'s biggest secret. A staffer from Zuckerberg\'s foundation, peppering Green with questions about the region\'s educational cooperative, finally admitted it was because the CEO himself wanted to visit. Green\'s reward for keeping it quiet was seeing the wide-eyed grins when Zuckerberg pulled up and greeted local high schoolers studying robotics and programming.Walking through science demonstrations, Zuckerberg spent more time trading tech tales with the teenagers than quizzing the teachers."He just lit up with those kids," Green said. "The way he talked with them about some of the things he did when he was in school and his passion for technology, it really was cool."When Zuckerberg toured an oil rig near Williston, North Dakota, last July, "from the minute he got out of the car to the minute he got back in the car, he was nothing but questions," said Ron Ness, president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council, which arranged the visit."I had Bakken shale, limestone, dolomite, and he was able to hold them in his hand, along with a bottle of crude oil. And I remember him asking, \'How do you get that oil out of that rock?\'" geologist Kathleen Neset said.In Dayton, Ohio, Zuckerberg met with officials, caregivers and families battling drug addiction. Lori Erion, the founder of the group Families of Addicts, said she told him what it was like to learn her daughter, April, had shot up heroin in their own home."It seemed to get him really emotional," Erion said, recalling how Zuckerberg stood up suddenly and told the group he needed a few minutes to steady himself. When he returned, he asked what makes an addict stay clean and how families got their loved ones into treatment."We didn\'t ever talk about Facebook at all," Erion said, "which is really interesting because Facebook is really the main way of us getting information out. He really was just like a regular person."___As Zuckerberg connected with Americans face-to-face, controversy over Facebook continued to spiral.Shortly before the election, McNamee sent a letter to Zuckerberg and Facebook\'s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warning that Facebook was being manipulated in ways its creators never intended. It wasn\'t just about the U.S. election: A consulting firm had collected data on people interested in the Black Lives Matter movement and sold it to police departments, and critics had detected a well-organized, clandestine campaign supporting Brexit.All this pointed to a deep problem with Facebook  that it was simply not equipped or not willing to prevent the misuse of its platform.McNamee said he has been disappointed in the incremental changes announced since.Facebook has adopted this "libertarian philosophy that says \'we are not responsible for anything downstream, we are allowed to disrupt media, we are allowed to addict our users and we are not responsible for any of the consequences of any of that,\'" he said.Zuckerberg could change that. But McNamee said it is not enough to hire thousands of workers to weed through fake and abusive posts if those posts keep getting through. And tweaking Facebook\'s newsfeed so users see more posts from families and friends does not address his certainty that the algorithms underlying Facebook make it dangerously addictive."You cannot cure addiction by doing more of the thing that got you addicted in the first place, which is what Zuck recommends," McNamee wrote in an email.Critics say Facebook continues to ignore the possibility of the social network being used for dark purposes, but Zuckerberg\'s supporters counter that he is unfairly blamed for problems he could not have foreseen.Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, credits Zuckerberg with leading Facebook through a shift in mindset, making changes that will nudge users into a more positive virtual environment  without completely shutting out inflammatory content."Facebook basically is saying we enable people based on the way they behave. That\'s a very democratic argument. If people want to live in filter bubbles, who are we to say \'Don\'t live in filter bubbles,\' even though we don\'t want them to?" Hoffman said.But Kirkpatrick argued that Zuckerberg\'s and Sandberg\'s surety that Facebook has a positive impact on society has blinded them to parallel realities. The company can\'t be fixed, Kirkpatrick said, until Zuckerberg comes to terms with existential threats to the way the social network does business  its potential to negatively affect democracy and the way it hooks in users."There\'s no question in my mind that Mark Zuckerberg is an ethical and responsible human being who wants to do the right thing," he said. "However, I do not think he has yet grasped the gravity with which his service is being perceived to be a socially harmful force all around the world. And I also don\'t think he realizes the extent to which that really is true."McNamee, recalling Zuckerberg as a 22-year-old visionary, said the CEO must be willing to rethink long-held assumptions. But that does not mean he has to abandon building his global community."You\'ve won," McNamee said he would tell Zuckerberg if asked again for his counsel."You\'ve achieved more than your wildest dreams. You\'re a billionaire. Now you have a chance to be a hero."
Goroke, Victoria, a former stagecoach stop in southeastern Australia, pop. 200, is not the sort of place you would expect to host a daylong academic symposium. About five hours from Melbourne by car, the town has the feel of an evacuation nearly complete. Empty storefronts line the main street; the local pub closed two years ago. Drive a few minutes outside Goroke, and the only signs of life arrive at dusk, when the kangaroos emerge from the brush to stare down passers-by from the edge of the road. But last December, about 40 scholars, critics, editors and general readers made the journey for a series of lectures on the work of Gerald Murnane. The author, who has lived in Goroke for the last decade, prefers not to travel, and he had suggested the scholars convene at the local golf club, where he plays a weekly game and also regularly tends bar.A strong case could be made for Murnane, who recently turned 79, as the greatest living English-language writer most people have never heard of. Even in his home country, he remains a cult figure; in 1999, when he won the Patrick White Award for underrecognized Australian writers, all his books were out of print. Yet his work has been praised by J.M. Coetzee and Shirley Hazzard, as well as young American writers like Ben Lerner and Joshua Cohen. Teju Cole has described Murnane as a genius and a worthy heir to Beckett. Last year, Ladbrokes placed his odds at winning the Nobel Prize for Literature at 50 to 1  better than Cormac McCarthy, Salman Rushdie and Elena Ferrante.Murnanes books are strange and wonderful and nearly impossible to describe in a sentence or two. After his third novel, The Plains, a fable-like story reminiscent of Italo Calvino published in 1982, Murnane largely turned away from what might be called conventional narrative pleasures. Dispensing almost entirely with plot and character, his later works are essayistic meditations on his own past, a personal mythology as attuned to the epic ordinariness of lost time as Proust, except with Murnane its horse races, a boyhood marble collection, Catholic sexual hang-ups and life as a househusband in the suburban Melbourne of the 1970s.Murnane has not made the selling of himself an easy task. Even by the standards of the solitary writer, his eccentricities are manifest. He has never flown on an airplane; in fact, he has barely traveled outside of Victoria. In a 2001 speech that has become legend among Murnanophiles, he informed an audience at the University of Newcastle of his longstanding belief that a person reveals at least as much when he reports what he cannot do or has never done. He went on:Murnane is a trim, compact man with a fierce face; in photographs, especially, he exhibits a strong disinclination to smiling, favoring the hard stare. At the Goroke Golf Club, a V.F.W.-style hall with cinder-block walls and vinyl floral-print tablecloths, he positioned himself behind the bar and flipped through a newspaper, half-listening to presentations with titles like Intention and Retrospective Revision in Gerald Murnanes Border Districts. Later, he claimed not to have followed much of the discussions. Mostly, he remembered thinking, Oh, so thats what it looks like to you. During breaks, he signed books, occasionally complaining about the covers, and sold beer and soft drinks to the academics.When I mentioned Murnanes bartending to his old friend Imre Saluszinksy, a journalist in Sydney, he paused, then said: Yeah, look, its bizarre. Somebodys going to come to this godforsaken dry golf course and order a beer from a person who could be the winner of the next Nobel Prize for Literature?Then again, for Murnane, who once expressed regret at not having simply allowed discerning editors to publish all my pieces of writing as essays, the author is always present in the text, and so for the enterprising scholar, theres arguably legitimate hermeneutic value in buying a Carlton from the subject of your dissertation. Murnanes life, his fiction and the landscape he inhabits  the beauty and isolation of the Victorian interior, calm seas of yellow grassland that conjure schoolbook images of the veld  are so inextricably entwined that to visit him in Goroke feels at once like a field trip and a close reading.A few weeks after my own journey to Goroke had been arranged, but before I had left for Australia, I heard from a publicist at Murnanes American publishing house: Could I send Gerald a text message? (After Murnane moved to Goroke, his sons insisted he violate one of the other longstanding strictures laid out in the Newcastle speech and purchase a cellular telephone.) Murnane was concerned because he hadnt received word from me. Id assumed, incorrectly, that he wouldnt want to be bothered by a journalist unless necessary. But five minutes after I sent him a quick introductory note, I received a long reply. It began: Very pleased to hear from you. I promise you abundant material. I have a reputation in some quarters as an aloof recluse but thats only because I refuse to go to writers festivals and talk the fake-intellectual [expletive] that most writers talk. Im wholly different and original and also affable and friendly when Im with genuine unpretentious folk such as the old guys I play golf with every week. After dispatching some scheduling questions, he ended the message, Once again, I promise you an interview unlike any youve done before.In one of my favorite Murnane stories, Precious Bane, published in 1985, the narrator, an aspiring writer who worries about becoming an alcoholic, browses unhappily in a used bookstore. He carries around a list of authors in a notebook labeled 1900-1940 ... Unjustly Neglected and worries about his own legacy  a bit prematurely, as he hasnt published anything yet. Then, because its Murnane, the plot, such as it is, turns inward, as the protagonist pictures a scene far in the future: the year 2020. (The story is set in 1980.) In his mind, he sees a man standing before a wall of bookshelves, gazing at the spine of the last remaining copy of a novel composed 40 years earlier. The man has read the book, but hes struggling to remember a single detail from the text, anything, a line, an image. (This is a favorite exercise of the real-life Murnane.) An odd five-page digression follows, in which the narrator imagines the human brain as a Carthusian monastery, with monks in charge of preserving memories. Eventually, he returns to the imagined future reader, who has failed to recall anything from what is, of course, the narrators book: The man fills his glass again and goes on sipping some costly poison of the twenty-first century. He does not understand the importance of his forgetfulness, but I understand it. I know that no one now remembers anything of my writing.Happily, though were only two years shy of his imagined dystopia, the Goroke symposium took place in the context of a belated surge of interest in Murnanes work. Here in the United States, Murnanes publishing history was spotty to nonexistent until Dalkey Archive, a small literary press, released his novel Barley Patch in 2011. This month, Farrar, Straus and Giroux will publish Stream System, Murnanes collected short fiction, and a new novel, Border Districts.The trickiness of categorizing Murnanes work goes some way toward explaining why hes not a household name, even among households with lots of books. Is he an outsider artist or a postmodern master? Both? Neither? As much as Murnane reveres Proust, his own elaborate memory palaces remain a genre unto themselves. On a sentence level, Murnane adheres to a militant grammatical precision and engages in repetition that verges on the incantatory (and that privileges the noun over the pronoun). Its a hypnotic style, dryly funny, or at least aware of the ways in which its fussiness might be amusing. In 1990, The London Review of Books published a cranky letter from Murnane that read, in full: Dear Editors, Frank Kermode quotes what he calls a very long sentence from Thomas Pynchon (LRB, 8 Feb, 90). The passage quoted is not a sentence. The passage consists of a sentence of 66 words followed by a comma and then a sequence of clauses and phrases that is neither a part of the sentence preceding it nor a sentence in itself.Murnane once described himself as a technical writer  meaning, he explained, that in his depictions of the mental imagery that is my only available subject-matter, he strove for the rigor and precision of a white paper. (He often refers to his stories as reports.) Id say hes more like a detective, pacing in front of a gigantic evidence board. A typical Murnane work of fiction unfolds like a procedural, often spinning out from a single, half-remembered image, something as simple as a jockeys racing colors, as glimpsed on a youthful outing to the track in Bendigo, a city in Victoria. Other memories will follow  anecdotes, personal asides, funny or sad little stories within the story  and it can all seem digressive, until the methodical obsessiveness of Murnanes self-interrogation becomes clear. Hes searching the furthest reaches of his memory for clues, hidden meanings, details that might have slipped away. The digressions turn out to be leads. And in the end, theres no writing-workshop epiphany, but rather that thrilling moment when the circles and arrows linking up the photographs thumbtacked to the squad-room wall form a previously unseen web of connection.For newcomers, the wide-ranging Stream System is the place to begin. Some of the stories assume more recognizable forms  for instance, the entire history of Australian colonialism becomes a concise, Borgesian parable about desire in Land Deal. Most of the other pieces feature self-conscious narrators who compulsively draw readerly attention to the text (Boy Blue begins A few weeks ago, the person writing this story read aloud to a gathering of persons another story that he had written) and could be read as fragmented, expressionistic memoirs in miniature. In Velvet Waters, the subject is failed romance; in one of the storys funnier episodes, the shy, Murnane-like narrator tries to impress a love interest by telling her about a weekend trip to an art movie  unfortunately, its Ingmar Bergmans The Virgin Spring, and he ends up going into great detail about the rape sequence. Cotters Come No More is a tribute to a complicated relationship with a favorite bachelor uncle who, in a lovely bit of imagery at the opening of the story, traps a fly under a glass, tosses it into a spider web and then stands with his hands on his hips, observing. Later, the teenage narrator recalls walks with his uncle on the family land, whereIn a long appreciation in his recent collection of essays, Coetzee praised Murnanes chiseled sentences, placing him among of the last generation of Australian writers to come to maturity when the country was still a cultural colony of England, repressed, puritanical and suspicious of foreigners. Murnanes Australianness comes through most clearly in The Plains  considered his masterpiece by many  which follows an artist seeking patronage from wealthy landowners in a mysterious frontier town, hoping to film the unfilmable secrets of the titular landscape. The world Murnane describes is a dream-country, where battles are waged between rival schools of artists (the Horizonites and the Haremen) and coastal condescension is flipped on its head as the vast, unloved interior becomes a place of rich and bedeviling obscurity, where landowners in their baronial estates pity the poor coast-dwellers staring all day from their cheerless beaches at the worst of all deserts and express bafflement with their awe at a mere absence of land.When I spoke to Saluszinksy, a former professor of English who published a monograph on Murnane with Oxford University Press in 1993, he brought up the story Precious Bane, which is also included in Stream System, pointing out that the title is a phrase used by Milton to describe money, something we need to get the things we want. Saluszinksy went on, I think for Gerald writing is a kind of precious bane. Its a burden and a nuisance, almost a duty, having to explore the connections between the images in his mind. And he keeps telling us that he has done his duty, that this is it. But of course, to use, if youll forgive me, Derridean language, theres always a supplement. Theres always an appendix. Theres always something left unsaid.My first day in Goroke, Murnane instructed me to pick him up at the local Mens Shed, housed in a former bank. For the non-Australian reader, a quick explanation: A mens shed is a communal workshop where members do things like repair shelves or bicycles, part of a national public-health initiative aimed at curbing depression among retired men. Murnane possesses few useful skills for a mens shed, but the week after he moved to Goroke, the owner of the local service station invited him to join. He looks after the kitchen, cleans the toilet and serves as treasurer.Murnane had been watching the street from behind the muslin storefront curtain, and he marched outside to greet me. He wore a plaid shirt tucked into light khaki trousers and had the loose, ruddy skin of an avid golfer of a certain age. A successful treatment for prostate cancer had left him unable to sleep without interruption, but he appeared sharp and full of vim.Your body adapts, like a soldier in the trenches, Murnane said matter-of-factly. The shed wasnt technically open, but Murnane led me past dusty workbenches scattered with tools into a modest lounge, where he put on a kettle and opened a jar of instant coffee. His health, he said, had been improving, and he felt full of optimism, and not just about his recovery. My publishing historys just so checkered with sudden reversals, ups and downs, confusions, wrong turnings, and at the end of my life, virtually, it seems like things are starting to work out, he said.Then he pulled out an envelope, on which hed written a series of preliminary questions to ask me. They included Are you at all interested in golf? Are you at all interested in horse racing? and What do you propose to do for lunch? My answers (no, sort of, your call) seemed to satisfy him. You might feel like youre being overorganized, but this is how I do things, Murnane said, leaning back in a chair. On a bulletin board behind him, someone had tacked up a photograph of a man at a pub drinking from a glass of beer the size of a trash barrel. The caption read, Im Only Going Out for One.Murnane moved to Goroke in 2009, after the death of his wife of 43 years, Catherine. Their eldest son, Giles, whom Murnane repeatedly described as a hermit, had come to Goroke years earlier, having chosen the town off the map for its cheap housing. Murnane had always been attracted to the country, and the first time he visited Giles, driving past the town graveyard, he had a premonition, calmly and wordlessly, he later wrote, as one understands things in dreams: Thats where my ashes will lie. I think you can probably see that Im sane, but I say and believe things that insane people believe, Murnane told me. I dont believe in a personal God, but I believe in the survival of the soul. And I get intimations and feelings. Catherine had no desire to move from their home in the Melbourne suburbs, but when her doctor informed her that she had terminal lung cancer, she turned to Murnane and said, Now you can go and live in Goroke. Less than a year later, she was buried in the towns cemetery. And I came up here to live with my hermit son, Murnane said. Scholarly people who admire my books find it somewhat incongruous that I should live in a place like this. But I dont mix very much with writers. We have very little to talk about. I find most of them pretentious. So it seems to me the most natural thing in the world that I should live here at this period in my life.Murnane and his son live on a residential street a few blocks away from the Mens Shed. An unpaved alley lined with corrugated-tin fencing led to the back entrance. The place had a ramshackle quality. A corrugated-tin barn stood beside five squat reservoirs used to capture rainwater  the towns water is not potable  and a lonely clothesline tree leaned crookedly in a cement courtyard surrounded by an uneven stone wall. Murnane lived in a studio behind the main house. Both buildings were constructed from unlined blocks of white sandstone quarried nearby, giving Murnanes quarters, especially, a bunkerlike feel.Its difficult to overstate the lack of shared qualities between Murnanes room and any recognized notion of a living area. There were nods in the latter direction: the kitchen sink and minifridge; the tiny bathroom; a wooden schoolboys desk, facing a blank wall in the corner, where Murnane writes. But the bulk of the room had been filled with Murnanes archives: more than a dozen filing cabinets, lining three walls and containing thousands of pages of journals, letters, lecture notes and ephemera from every stage of his life. A separate row of metal storage lockers bisected the center of the room, adding to the jarring overall motif, a blend of fanatical organization and claustrophobia, as if a squatter had taken over a secluded wing of a research library. There was no bed. Murnane keeps a folding cot in his shower stall. A threadbare sleeping pad, meant for a tent, was stored atop the storage lockers along with some blankets.Murnane began keeping the archives more than 50 years ago, both for posterity and to satisfy his own meticulous sense of order, and he has left strict instructions regarding their contents, which are not to be made public until after his own death and the death of his surviving siblings. (He has one brother, a Catholic priest, and a sister; another brother, who was born with an intellectual disability and was repeatedly hospitalized, died in 1985.) Nonetheless, Murnane opened the cabinets to give me a sense of their contents. His so-called Chronological Archive is stuffed with hanging files covering each period of his life and featuring headings like I rebuff a wealthy widow, I fall out with an arrogant student of mine, Two women bother me, I decide that most books are crap, Hoaxes! How I love them! and Peter Carey exposed at last. He also has multiple drafts of his 13 books; letters addressed, as in a time capsule, to a future Murnane scholar, whom he imagines as a young woman, and whom he addresses in the letters as Fc, for future creature; a notebook of 20,000 words titled My Shame File; a 40,000-word report on miraculous or unexplained events in his life; and a 75,000-word account of his dealings with everyone he has ever courted romantically or considered courting.Theres your seat, he said, gesturing to a camping chair unfolded at the foot of his desk. It sat comically low to the ground. I settled in, the lockers containing every detail of Murnanes mind rising on either side of me like canyon walls, and Murnane pulled out a list of agenda items he wished to discuss.The list had been organized, I soon realized, in such a way that we would move in a counterclockwise direction around the room, stopping at various points to discuss objects of particular significance. One of the first items he pointed out, a poster covered with the racing colors of every jockey who had won the Melbourne Cup from its inception in 1861 until 2008, turned out to be part of his daily routine of memory exercises, which he compared to the offices, or hourly prayers, performed by Catholic priests.Turning away from the poster and clutching his hands behind his back, he told me to pick a year. I offered 1970. Nineteen-seventy, Murnane said. That horse was Baghdad Note. Emerald green, with white-striped sleeve and cap. Mondays, he said, he recited the entire list in order. Tuesdays he went backward. Other days involved skipping around the poster in ways I didnt quite follow. After that, he did the same with the 50 states of America and then recited passages in Hungarian, a language hed learned at 56. He showed me a set of flashcards. The English side of the one I picked up read, He was caught up in the enthusiasm.Murnane had started talking the moment I picked him up at the Mens Shed, and he didnt stop, with few exceptions, for the next 12 hours, until I left for my hotel, a room above a pub in nearby Natimuk. He spoke rapidly, in a futile effort to keep pace with the speed of his own thoughts, constantly interrupting himself with muttered asides  a quote from the symbolist playwright Alfred Jarry, a self-deprecating story about his haplessness with women, a gripe about a Publishers Weekly review from the mid-1980s. He accepted my own interruptions of his monologues with good humor and often delight at the prospect of a new digression. When he excused himself to use the toilet, he closed the bathroom door and raised his voice.Even though their accents are nothing alike, something about the way Murnane spoke reminded me of Michael Caine, or at least of the East London gangsters Caine once played. His voice, clipped and nasal, had a bantam toughness, and his sentences (in life, not literature) make regular detours from formidable erudition into the slangy and profane. He described a cheapskate he knows as mean with money, the [expletive], a reputedly promiscuous girl of his youth as a rough sort of tart. He took special pleasure in revisiting old grudges, but could also be casually impolitic. On Raymond Carver: I met him. He came to Australia once. The second word he said to me was [expletive]. I thought, Youre too dumb to have written what you wrote.We came to a map of Victoria. Murnane estimates that his family moved a dozen times before his 20th birthday, always in and around greater Melbourne and often in flight from gambling debts incurred at racing meets by his father, Reginald, described to me by a friend of Geralds as a wastrel. Murnane pointed out Murnane Bay, a notch on Victorias southern coast said to be named after his grandfather, a prosperous dairy farmer: Nasty old [expletive] of a bloke. Tom. No one liked him. Well, my father worshiped him, for some reason. I hated the guy. Despite all his time spent there as a boy, Murnane never learned to swim. The water gets in my eyes, I panic, thats why I dont have showers, he said. (He washes himself, he explained, standing at the sink.) Thats where I learned to hate the sea, he went on, and to look inland toward the plains.At 18, Murnane entered a seminary. He lasted only three months and lost his faith by his early 20s; the lure, more than God, had been the idealized notion of a monastic writing life. Hed been reading Thomas Merton, the American Trappist monk, and envied such an ordered existence, so pure in its devotion. As a teenager, he dreamed of becoming a poet, in part because he assumed writers of prose possessed an understanding of human behavior, which he believed he lacked. I dont know what anyone is thinking, Murnane told me. People are a mystery to me. He spent 13 years as a public servant, teaching in primary schools and working as an editor in a government office, and he married Catherine, who also worked as a teacher, in 1966, when he was 27. They settled in an unfashionable northern suburb, where she supported his decision to quit his day job and take care of their three sons, snatching free moments to work on his fiction and supplementing the family income with the occasional grant.By the time he published The Plains, Murnane had begun teaching creative writing at the Australian equivalent of a community college, but despite the novels critical success, he maintained an ambivalent distance from the literary scene. He still did most of his writing at an ironing board set up in his kitchen, because his familys home was so crowded for space.The novelist Helen Garner told me in an email that she first met Murnane at a literary festival in Adelaide in 1986. She won an award, and after the presentation, Murnane quietly introduced himself and asked, somewhat agitated, if he could put a question to her: Had she received word of her award in advance? Yes, Garner replied. His face darkened, and he turned away muttering, Garner recalled. I didnt know where to put myself, thinking he was unable to conceal his anger at not having won the prize. But he pulled himself together and explained that he had never before traveled outside his home state of Victoria, that he hated traveling and never wanted to go anywhere  against all his principles and natural inclinations he had come all this way to Adelaide (I think by train) ONLY because hed thought his book (which I think must have been Landscape With Landscape) had a very good chance of winning the prize. ... His explanation was so sincere, and his distress at having been betrayed into acting against his inner self so genuine, that I felt very warmly toward him, and have done ever since, in my very distant acquaintance with him.As we circumnavigated his room, Murnane sipped from a plastic bottle containing a suspiciously cloudy beverage. It turned out to be water mixed with vinegar. (His doctor had instructed him to drink more water, but he didnt like the taste.) Around 4:30, as he does every day, Murnane switched to beer, a slightly sour, high-alcohol-content pale ale he brewed himself, originally to save money, though now hed grown partial to it. His golfing partner, the daughter of a friend from the Mens Shed, had invited us over for dinner. Before we left, Murnane settled into his desk chair and rubbed his eyes, his unruly eyebrows squirming above his fingers.Even though Ive lived what some people would call a sheltered life, Murnane said, I love how  I dont know if its a misquote or what, but Kafka is once supposed to have said, If you stay in your room, the world will come to you and writhe on the floor in front of you. I came here to Goroke intending to stay in this room. And the world is writhing in front of me. Editors, scholars, journalists, Murnane said, they all come up here to see how I live.Well, but not just that, I thought, looking around. A visit to Murnanes room made me think of the one-way intimacy that occurs between reader and writer  that feeling, after finishing a poem or novel, of having temporarily inhabited a consciousness not your own. Only here, I had the rare opportunity to experience that sensation in a physical space. (As in his chiseled paragraphs, in Murnanes archive everything has its place: While showing me the chronological files, Murane pointed at a cabinet drawer and said, My wife dies over here.) Stepping into the hermetic confines of Murnanes world so perfectly mirrored his fictional project that it felt like stepping into the pages of one of his books.Murnanes golfing partner, Tammy Williams, lives with her two children in a cozy, art-filled home about five minutes away. (To be clear, everything in Goroke is five minutes away.) Pulling up a chair at the kitchen table, Murnane nodded in my direction and said: He tasted the home brew. Didnt make any comment. But he got it down. He didnt spit it out.Williams, looking appalled, quickly poured me a glass of wine.Did you see the way he lives? Williams asked, as she began to arrange a buffet. Murnane appeared delighted by the teasing. Williams shook her head and said, I told Gerald once, You might be a famous writer, but youre a crap golfer.During my time in Goroke, I never met Murnanes son Giles. Murnane said he slept during the day and mostly ventured out at night to pick up snacks or fast food in Horsham, a city about 45 minutes away. Despite the hermit cracks, he spoke tenderly, and in protective terms, of Giles; ailing or troubled children appear in several of his stories, including, most powerfully, in the opening story in Stream System, When the Mice Failed to Arrive, in which the protagonist, a primary-school teacher turned househusband, struggles to explain suffering to a son hospitalized with asthma. Catherine also dealt with serious illnesses throughout her life, often leaving Gerald to care for the children.Gerald had a hard time in the city, Chris Gregory, a friend and former student, told me in an email. He isnt the sort of person to tell you his problems, and Im not the sort to ask about them, but its clearly been hard, working in semi-obscurity, kicking against the pricks, dealing with a sometimes-difficult family life, his wifes painful death. Ivor Indyk, Murnanes longtime Australian publisher, believes the recursive mode of his fiction, its circularity and baroque structure, was a way for him to deal with hot material  hot for him, because its emotionally charged, Indyk told me. There are events in his past that hes still coming to terms with.On my last day in Goroke, Murnane and I visited Catherines grave. The simple marker read:He pulled a handkerchief from his pocket and wiped off the top of the stone. It was the last day of January, summer in Australia, and the shorn barley and wheat fields wed driven past had seemed to pixelate in the bright afternoon sunlight.Ever one for spatial precision, Murnane pointed to the spot on the ground where Catherines ashes had been interred, forming a small, boxlike shape with his hands. And Ill be buried where youre standing, he said.I took a step back.Murnane had other things he wanted to show me: the golf club, a lake on the outskirts of town. Back at the Mens Shed, he introduced me to some of the other members, Rob, Taffy, Rossco, former truck drivers, farmers, mechanics: Now, this man says he likes a lot about Australia, but he has found a few faults with Australian men, Murnane said, gesturing to me. He thinks they swear too much, they tell too many dirty jokes and they drink too much. So I said, Dont worry, Mark, Ill take you to a place where none of that happens. The guys chuckled, and Murnane waggled a finger at them: So you [expletive] [expletive] better not make a liar of me!Murnane, who has said Border Districts will be his final novel, did not look like someone who missed his old life. In fact, he had recused himself from the literary scene once before. Back in Melbourne, as his books after The Plains became more experimental and inward-looking, he felt like an increasingly marginal figure  so much so that, in 1991, he decided to quit. Over the next decade, Murnane published only a single story collection, Emerald Blue, comprising mostly older material; the final sentence of the final story, The Interior of Gaaldine, reads, The text ends at this point. (Emerald Blue sold 600 copies, affirming his decision.) For extra cash, he took a job bundling newspapers and magazines in the early hours of the morning. He returned to writing only in 2001, after Indyk, the publisher of an independent literary press, offered to give him a home.What exactly did Murnane get up to during his lost decade? It turns out he left a clue in The Interior of Gaaldine. The first half is a comic telling of a drunken journey by boat to Tasmania for a literary tour, made under duress by a writer who hates to travel. The story takes a turn into the supernatural after the protagonists arrival in Hobart, where, after he passes out in his hotel room, a ghostly messenger delivers a briefcase. It contains thousands of pages of writing  not, as the protagonist fears, an unpublished manuscript, but details of a complex horse-racing game devised by its owner, who has spent decades playing the game alone in his room. The protagonist wonders if the author of the pages wanted to meet me in order to persuade me to write a different sort of fiction in the future.Though Murnane never became a problem gambler like his father, one of his most cherished childhood memories involves a horse-racing game he played with a set of colored marbles. (To this day, he keeps the marbles in a jar in his room, where they occupy a place of pride just behind his writing desk.) And the strangest thing about The Interior of Gaaldine is that not only the obviously autobiographical first half of the story, but the entire thing, basically, minus the ghost and the briefcase, is true. Murnane, working in secret beginning in 1985, developed a wildly more intricate version of his boyhood racing game, which is how he spent most of his retirement, and how he fills many of his evenings in Goroke.He calls the project his Antipodean Archive. Inside its cabinets drawers, there were maps of the two fictional countries where the races take place (including timetables for the major train networks), detailed sketches of racecourses and notebooks filled with the names and racing colors of the 1,500 full-time trainers, illustrated with head shots cut from newspapers and Murnanes own childlike drawings of the racing silks. An index listed every horse to have raced in the Antipodes, and there were handwritten, single-spaced results of the hundreds of races, as in a racing form. His method of determining race outcomes, too complex to get into here, involves, of course, books: A randomly chosen sentence generates points for a particular horse based on the number of vowels and consonants, combined with a banked system of points Murnane can award to favorites.As we flipped through the folders, I thought of the great Robert Coover novel The Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop., about a recluse who invents a proto-fantasy-baseball game with players who become more real to him than any live human, and also about the work of outsider artists like Henry Darger, the reclusive Chicago janitor who secretly crafted his own elaborate, obsessive mythology illustrated with hundreds of paintings and collages. As Murnane explained the world he had created, he sounded as if he were speaking of a real place: Now in New Arcady, which is the smaller island, there are only 12 racecourses. They have races about five days a week up in the North. At one point, Murnane closed his eyes, clenched his hands into fists and broke into song. It was the New Eden national anthem, which hed written and composed himself.Oceans foaming, mariners roaming, never a home in perilous seas. ... The lyrics are not my best shot, Murnane acknowledged. Theyre meant to sound like something people would compose in 1880.For years, he kept his project under wraps, even from his wife. Its an embarrassing thing for an old man, or a middle-aged man at the time, that he plays kids games, Murnane said. But theyre not kids games. To help me better understand, he showed me a letter hed written to Fc, his future creature. It read, in part: All the fiction I ever wrote or read was a preparation for this, my true lifes work. In book after book of mine, I wrote about the contents of my mind, setting all my images on paper so that I could have done with them; could sweep them out of sight and leave my mind free for the infinite imagery of the Antipodes. His reports from the interior, from his own interior, had always skirted around the edges of a central image winking at the far reaches of his consciousness, a pair of his dream jockeys crossing a finish line. How could he ignore them?Next year, to coincide with his 80th birthday, Murnane will publish a book of poetry and outtakes from a previous novel. But other than the poems, composed in Goroke over the last few years, Murnane says he has retired once again. If I woke up tomorrow morning feeling a tremendous pressure to write, I would write, Murnane told me. But I probably wont. I almost certainly wont. Instead, he spends his evenings recording the results of imaginary races for his archive. Surely it must contain a germ of a narrative, an editor once insisted. But, of course, several, no, thousands of narratives are embodied in the Archive, Murnane wrote to Fc. There are at least as many narratives as there are horses and jockeys and trainers and owners.I no longer felt as if Id stepped into a story by Murnane, but rather one by Borges: a story about a brilliant writer who discovers that the purest form of writing is, in the end, to write nothing at all.Gingerly, I prodded Murnane. All his books had been so deeply personal, but also something any reader could enter into. But with the Antipodean Archive, Murnane had created countries where only he could travel. Did he harbor any second thoughts about diverting so much of his creativity into such a private pursuit?Murnane smiled. He could see another connection forming. From one of his cabinets, he retrieved a typewritten manuscript page from his poetry collection. Read it, he instructed. Thats where wed stop.The poem, after explaining the archive over many lines, the perfect summation/of my lifelong belief in the sport of horse-racing/as a better source of inspiration/than opera, theater, film, you name it, ended like this:Reader, if youre urgedto learn more about this imagined world,outlive me and my siblings and visit the librarywhere my archives end up. Youll find there a filingcabinet full of the sort of detailthat I wanted to include in this poem but failed.Youll read thousands of pages, though youll never see,unfortunately, what they revealed to me.
