SINGAPORE   Global tech giants including Facebook and Twitter on Thursday expressed concern about a possible Singapore plan to bring in a new law to tackle the threat of fake news, saying sufficient rules are already in place.Officials of Facebook, Twitter and Google attended a parliamentary hearing on how to counter the threat that Singapore said it was particularly vulnerable to due to its size, its role as a global financial hub and its ethnic and religious mix.They were among 79 people asked to speak in parliament over the eight days set for the hearing.The wealthy city state is among the countries looking to introduce legislation, so far unspecified, to rein in fake news, a trend that has stirred concern that such laws could be used to exert government control over the media."We do not believe that legislation is the best approach to addressing the issue," Alvin Tan, Facebook\'s head of public policy for Southeast Asia, said in a written submission."Singapore already has a variety of existing laws and regulations which address hate speech, defamation and the spreading of false news."Singapore ranks 151 among 180 countries rated by the World Press Freedom Index of Reporters Without Borders, a non-government group that promotes freedom of information.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe have called for probes into how Facebook allowed Cambridge Analytica to access data on 50 million users and use it to help the election campaign of U.S. President Donald Trump.Expressing the view that social media networks were not capable of regulating themselves, Singapore\'s law minister, K Shanmugam, questioned Facebook official Simon Milner over how "one of the world\'s most competent firms" could have breached users\' trust."Right now, it doesn\'t feel like it," Milner, the firm\'s Asia policy chief, responded. He conceded failure to be upfront about the breach of user data, saying, "We had a moral obligation to do it (notify our users)."He added, "As I understand it, there was not a legal obligation."Milner questioned the premise that a legal framework could be used to decide whether information was fake news, however."How do you define ... what is a deliberate online falsehood and what is not? We are skeptical about that."Microblogging site Twitter also shared concerns about Singapore\'s plans."No single company, governmental or non-governmental actor, should be the arbiter of truth," said Kathleen Reen, Twitter\'s director of Public Policy for Asia Pacific.(Reporting by Fathin Ungku; Editing by Jack Kim and Clarence Fernandez)

NEW YORK   CNN chief Jeff Zucker sharply attacked the network\'s rivals at Fox News Channel on Thursday, saying that it has become a propaganda machine that is "doing an incredible disservice to the country."Zucker spoke at the Financial Times Future of News conference two days after a former Fox military analyst quit, claiming he was ashamed at the way the network\'s opinion hosts were backing President Donald Trump. Zucker said that analyst, Ralph Peters, voiced what a lot of people have been thinking about Fox in the post-Roger Ailes era."What has happened to that network in the last 18 months, especially the last year, is that it has just turned itself into state-run TV," Zucker said. "TASS has nothing on them," he said in reference to the Russian news agency.There was no immediate comment from a Fox representative.However, Trump\'s former White House strategist, Steve Bannon, said later at the same conference that Zucker\'s comments were absurd. He said "you can\'t name a more propaganda outfit than CNN.""Every night it\'s \'hate Trump,\'" Bannon said. He questioned why anyone wasn\'t fired at CNN after the 2016 election results took many people by surprise.Fox has maintained its ratings lead with a prime-time opinion lineup led by Sean Hannity, Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham. Together with MSNBC\'s left-leaning lineup, the two political talk networks are frequently the most popular destinations for viewers on cable television. Fox and MSNBC have been widening their lead in prime time over CNN, which recently announced that Chris Cuomo would join its prime-time lineup.Zucker said that Fox has "a handful of good journalists but they get lost in the propaganda machine.""The idea that they are a news channel is really not accurate at all," he said.Zucker\'s network has been on the receiving end of withering criticism from Trump during his presidency. He\'s repeatedly referred to CNN as "fake news" when he doesn\'t like its coverage. Zucker said Trump\'s criticisms are not going to stop CNN from doing its job of holding leaders accountable.But he said the Trump has created an atmosphere of hostility toward reporters that has spread from the U.S. across the world."He doesn\'t even understand the danger he is creating for journalists and the danger he is creating for news organizations," Zucker said.However, he said the Trump administration has helped news organizations raise their games to cover what is going on."He has made American journalism great again," Zucker said.
SAO PAULO   Federal prosecutors in Latin America\'s biggest country announced Thursday that they are investigating to determine if Cambridge Analytica illegally used the profiles of millions of Brazilian Facebook users.Prosecutors the investigation was prompted by reports that the London-based political consulting firm had access to the personal information of 50 million Facebook users in the United States and could create voter personality profiles.They said in a statement they want to find out if Cambridge Analytica, in partnership with local consultancy A Ponte Estrategia Planejamento e Pesquisa, also did the same thing in Brazil before the country\'s October elections.Prosecutors said the partnership between both consulting firms began in 2017.The Brazilian company said in a statement that it was never involved in the creation of such profiles and ended its relationship with Cambridge Analytica earlier this month."We are investigating if Cambridge Analytica is illegally using the personal data of millions of Brazilians to construct psychographic profiles to determine political and religious beliefs, sexual orientation, skin color, and political behavior," the prosecutors\' statement said. "It is clear that the company\'s focus is to use this data to change people\'s behavior."According to Statista, a Hamburg, Germany-based data and statistical company, Brazil has the world\'s third largest number of Facebook users as of January 2018. With 130 million Facebook users, Brazil comes behind India with 250 million and the United States with 230 million.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said his company has a responsibility to stop fake news that could affect elections."There\'s a big election in India this year, there\'s a big election in Brazil, there are big elections around the world, and you can bet that we are really committed to doing everything that we need to make sure that the integrity of those elections on Facebook is secured," he said in a Wednesday interview with CNN.Fake news, including stories posted on Facebook, and their potential to interfere in the coming elections is a growing concern in Brazil.
LONDON   British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica lies at the center of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 U.S. presidential election campaign.However, the analytics firm is also under scrutiny over campaigning for the 2016 referendum when Britons voted to leave the European Union.Cambridge Analytica and the leaders of the Leave.EU group have previously boasted about working together during the Brexit campaign. However, they have since retracted their claims, saying no contract was signed and no work was completed.Parliament is investigating the links between Cambridge Analytica and Leave.EU as part of an investigation into fake news.Did Cambridge Analytica and Leave.EU work together?Arron Banks, the co-founder of Leave.EU, said in a book that in October 2015 his group hired Cambridge Analytica, a company that uses "big data and advanced psychographics" to influence people. In a November 2015, Leave.EU said on its website that Cambridge Analytica "will be helping us map the British electorate and what they believe in, enabling us to better engage with voters".In the same month, Cambridge Analytica director Brittany Kaiser spoke at a Leave.EU news conference. She said her organization would be "running large-scale research of the nation to really understand why people are interested in staying in or out of the EU".In February 2016, Cambridge Analytica chief executive  Alexander Nix wrote in Campaign magazine that his company was working for Leave.EU. "We have already helped supercharge Leave.EU\'s social media campaign by ensuring the right messages are getting to the right voters online," said Nix, who was suspended by the company this week.Leave.EU\'s communications director Andy Wigmore also said on Twitter last year that his campaign group had used the company. "You should use Cambridge Analytics," he said, adding that he could "highly recommend them".What does Leave.EU say now?Banks says Cambridge Analytica sought work with the Leave.EU before the referendum but that ultimately it never did any - paid or otherwise - for the campaign."We did have dealings with Cambridge Analytica  they put forward a pitch that went into the designation document submitted to the electoral commission," Banks told Reuters.No work was done with Cambridge Analytica because Leave.EU did not win the designation as the official leave campaign and due to concerns about the consultancy, Banks said.When asked if Leave.EU paid or accepted any services from Cambridge Analytica, Banks said: "No benefit in kind, no data, no nothing."Banks told a parliamentary committee earlier this month that when he referred to Cambridge Analytica being "hired" in his book this was a reference to the intention to work them.What does Cambridge Analytica say now?Nix told a parliamentary committee last month that he contacted Banks and Wigmore and their statements were not true.The article written in the Campaign magazine was a mistake and "drafted by a slightly overzealous PR consultant", he said.This "referenced work that we hoped and intended to undertake for the campaign. Subsequently, work was never undertaken. The moment that that statement went out we were absolutely crystal clear to all the media outlets that we were not involved and that it had been released in error," he said.(Reporting by Andrew MacAskill; editing by David Stamp)
LONDON   British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica lies at the centre of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 U.S. presidential election campaign.However, the analytics firm is also under scrutiny over campaigning for the 2016 referendum when Britons voted to leave the European Union.Cambridge Analytica and the leaders of the Leave.EU group have previously boasted about working together during the Brexit campaign. However, they have since retracted their claims, saying no contract was signed and no work was completed.Parliament is investigating the links between Cambridge Analytica and Leave.EU as part of an investigation into fake news.Did Cambridge Analytica and Leave.EU work together?Arron Banks, the co-founder of Leave.EU, said in a book that in October 2015 his group hired Cambridge Analytica, a company that uses "big data and advanced psychographics" to influence people. In a November 2015, Leave.EU said on its website that Cambridge Analytica "will be helping us map the British electorate and what they believe in, enabling us to better engage with voters".In the same month, Cambridge Analytica director Brittany Kaiser spoke at a Leave.EU news conference. She said her organisation would be "running large-scale research of the nation to really understand why people are interested in staying in or out of the EU".In February 2016, Cambridge Analytica chief executive  Alexander Nix wrote in Campaign magazine that his company was working for Leave.EU. "We have already helped supercharge Leave.EU\'s social media campaign by ensuring the right messages are getting to the right voters online," said Nix, who was suspended by the company this week.Leave.EU\'s communications director Andy Wigmore also said on Twitter last year that his campaign group had used the company. "You should use Cambridge Analytics," he said, adding that he could "highly recommend them".What does Leave.EU say now?Banks says Cambridge Analytica sought work with the Leave.EU before the referendum but that ultimately it never did any - paid or otherwise - for the campaign."We did have dealings with Cambridge Analytica  they put forward a pitch that went into the designation document submitted to the electoral commission," Banks told Reuters.No work was done with Cambridge Analytica because Leave.EU did not win the designation as the official leave campaign and due to concerns about the consultancy, Banks said.When asked if Leave.EU paid or accepted any services from Cambridge Analytica, Banks said: "No benefit in kind, no data, no nothing."Banks told a parliamentary committee earlier this month that when he referred to Cambridge Analytica being "hired" in his book this was a reference to the intention to work them.What does Cambridge Analytica say now?Nix told a parliamentary committee last month that he contacted Banks and Wigmore and their statements were not true.The article written in the Campaign magazine was a mistake and "drafted by a slightly overzealous PR consultant", he said.This "referenced work that we hoped and intended to undertake for the campaign. Subsequently, work was never undertaken. The moment that that statement went out we were absolutely crystal clear to all the media outlets that we were not involved and that it had been released in error," he said.(Reporting by Andrew MacAskill; editing by David Stamp)
Sometimes when Rachel Lee Hovnanian, a conceptual artist who lives in Manhattan, sees a hill, she will stop what shes doing to roll down it. She also likes lying under trees.As a tomboy in Ohio and then Texas, I was always outdoors, she recalled recently, while giving a tour of her current show at the Leila Heller gallery in Chelsea. I would make mud pies, climb trees and go fishing and camping all the time.Not doing much of anything in nature, she believes, especially in a time of pervasive smartphone and tech entertainment addiction, can be good for the imagination.And that explains why her new exhibition has an NDD Immersion Room, and why visitors are asked to give up their phones and have them locked up by staff members in glass boxes on the wall before entering.NDD stands for nature deficit disorder, a phrase coined by the writer Richard Louv in a 2005 book, Last Child in the Woods. Ms. Hovnanian first saw the term used on a psychology website called Positive Prescription, and it resonated with her own ideas about humans needing some contact with nature to be healthy, whether that means seeing mountains on the horizon or touching mud.The artists Immersion Room is an elaborate indoor installation that meticulously recreates a forest at night. You enter with lanterns, one or two at a time through mirrored swinging doors, to walk on leaves and a wood stump path under towering, fragrant fir trees. The sound of crickets and rushing water fills the darkness. A fake campfire flickers under an artificial sky full of stars where theres a log to sit on or a camping cot for anyone who cares to lie down. All of this is next to the West Side Highway.When Im anxious I always go to the park, said Leila Heller, the gallerist behind Ms. Hovnanians multigenre and satirical installations. But kids dont know how to do that these days because theyre on their phones. That said, the show is drawing crowds.Visitors are free to sit and linger and many do. They cant, however, take pictures or text their friends.Its about detaching from technology and using your other senses, Ms. Hovnanian said.She has been, like many people, appalled at her own tech addiction for years.A normal user touches her phone 2,500 times a day and an excessive one touches it twice that, Ms. Hovnanian added, referring to various studies from business websites. I met a mother who told me that her 2-year-olds first words were Mama, Dada and iPad.She was not always so anti-tech. Her previous installations included Plastic Perfect, featuring hyper-realistic robotic babies that gallery visitors held while posing for social media.Easier than real babies, and you can order them online like pizza, Ms. Hovnanian said.She also created a video installation, Foreplay, with young, nearly naked couples lounging in bed while staring into glowing phones, as if they were lovers in a four-way or perhaps about to conceive an artificial baby by way of ordering one from Amazon.Another installation included a dinner table populated with two iPads that show video images of a man and a woman. They are positioned to seem like theyre staring at each other.Ive seen couples on dates with one of them texting on a phone, which causes the other one to start texting too, Ms. Hovnanian said,Its all very alienating and distracting.The artist, who is married to Ara K. Hovnanian, president and chief executive of Hovnanian Enterprises, a Fortune 500 home-construction company, asks her family to put away phones at dinner and has a rule for herself of not turning on her phone while having coffee with her husband in the morning.Galleries and museums, of course, have been dealing with phone intrusions for years. Unlike theaters, however, they dont require audiences to turn off their devices. Most have given up on prohibiting or policing photography. Some have paid the price for their leniency.A few years ago, a student visiting the Academy of Fine Arts of Brera in Italy tried to take a selfie while sitting on the lap of a statue and broke off its leg. Last year a selfie-taker at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington backed into a Yayoi Kusama sculpture and damaged it.Still, social media can help galleries promote shows and make them more fun.I dont like to control how people behave and besides, most of our visitors are very respectful, said Anne Pasternak, the director of the Brooklyn Museum, who is overseeing a David Bowie exhibition that forbids photography, in a rare move for the museum. But I do think that lit-up screens can be distracting in a dark installation.Some visitors to Ms. Hovnanians installation balk when told that they have to give up their phones to go into her forest. Ill come back another time, one young man said, then turned and fled.But most of them, according to staff members, dont mind at all.Many people leave without remembering to get their phones back, said Brandon Reis, an intern at the gallery who heard one visitor suggest to another about coming back to spend spring break in the Immersion Room.Ms. Hovnanian, who is 58, and who once created a cafe installation that served mud pie (recipe instructions in the catalog include taking shoes off to feel the cool earth beneath your feet) enjoys interacting with visitors who ask questions about the various rooms of her current exhibition. (The Immersion Room is on display through April 11, and there is also a Waiting Room in which visitors enter a plaster igloo to charge their phones.)Last Wednesday she listened to a young man from Paris who emerged exuberant from the Immersion Room, as if he just came in from a long hike through a redwood forest. So many artists are good at mocking social media and selfie culture, he told her in excellent English. But you actually give us a reason to give up our phones.
SAN FRANCISCO   Most people who own a smartphone take it wherever they go, a fact of modern life that enabled authorities to hunt down the man suspected in five Texas bombings before he blew himself up Wednesday.The search for the suspect, identified as Mark Anthony Conditt, drew upon technology that connects mobile phones to cellular towers and transmits the device\'s location. It\'s similar to the same way that an app installed on your phone can know where you are and, in some cases, even learn more about your favorite places to shop, buy coffee or just hang out.But some of the methods law enforcement officials have used to track people\'s location through their phones have raised legal issues, even when the target is suspected of committing heinous crimes like Conditt is. That\'s because their location-tracking techniques cast a wide net that also can capture personal information about innocent bystanders.___GETTING THE CELL NUMBEROfficials in Texas said they were able to obtain Conditt\'s phone number. This breakthrough came after he was linked through a license plate number to a red truck spotted on surveillance video at a FedEx store where he is suspected to have dropped off a parcel bomb.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said the same phone number showed up at the bomb sites. But he did not elaborate on how investigators obtained the information to reach that conclusion.In the most likely scenario, investigators may have asked telecommunication carriers for historical records of all traffic on certain cell towers on specific dates, said Mike Chapple, associate teaching professor of information technology, analytics and operations at the University of Notre Dame.A warrant usually accompanies requests, known as "tower dumps," but not always. The U.S. Supreme Court is currently reviewing a case involving the pulling of 127 days of cellphone information without a warrant to pinpoint the location of a robbery suspect. The question being debated is whether the investigation violated the Fourth Amendment against unreasonable searches.___TRACKING THE PHONE NUMBEROnce investigators had Conditt\'s phone number, they most likely contacted his carrier to track where the device\'s signal was connecting to towers.But the authorities also may have tried to get an even more precise location by using "cell-site simulators" that act as fake towers. These simulators, also known as "StingRays," broadcast radio signals stronger than legitimate cell towers to force all phones within a targeted area to connect to them.Some simulators can fit in the trunk of a police car that can cruise around a neighborhood in an effort to find a certain phone. But in the process they can also scoop up the locations of other phones, as well as personal data stored on them, said Stephanie Lacambra, a criminal defense staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group."All bystanders in a certain radius can have their information hoovered up without their consent with some of these investigative techniques," Lacambra said.___AP writer Paul J. Weber in Austin, Texas, contributed to this story.
LOS ANGELES  In the nearly two decades since the original lineup of the Smashing Pumpkins succumbed to rock-star clichs, crumbling under the weight of drugs, expectations and egos, the bands lead singer, songwriter and guitarist Billy Corgan has kept himself plenty busy.A confident mastermind with omnivorous ambitions, Mr. Corgan, 51, became a published poet; a professional wrestling executive and owner; a prolific Myspace and LiveJournal user; a curator of vintage photographs; an amateur talking head and recurring guest on Alex Joness Infowars programming; the proprietor of a Chicago-area tea shop; and a cat magazine cover star, among other side-hustles.There was no shortage of music either, including two solo albums and one with Zwan, as well as various iterations of the Smashing Pumpkins that Mr. Corgan has kept afloat since declaring in a 2005 full-page newspaper ad: I want my band back, and my songs, and my dreams.Yet despite reviving the Pumpkins brand with additional albums and regular touring over the years, Mr. Corgan, as the only constant member, has never again sniffed the creative or commercial success of the bands heyday. Amid four consecutive platinum albums in the 1990s, the grunge-adjacent group peaked by selling more than 10 million copies of Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness, a 28-track opus with no fewer than four era-defining hits, including Tonight, Tonight and Bullet With Butterfly Wings.Looking back at the aftermath of those accomplishments, Mr. Corgan can admit now that he was a bit like Don Quixote, wrestling with the ghost of the thing and carrying on a war that was very much my own war, he said this month. I was in denial about what Id given up.So it was with some hard-won humility that Mr. Corgan allowed himself to realize a few years back that the Pumpkins were just not the same without the original guitarist James Iha, who helped found the group as a Chicago teenager in 1988; Jimmy Chamberlin, the drummer who has been Mr. Corgans most frequent on-and-off collaborator; and the bassist DArcy Wretzky.After some tentative emails initiated by Mr. Iha  their first real contact since 2001  and then a few air-clearing dinners, Mr. Corgan began the process of slowly piecing back together his core creative unit. With enough time past, and having each toiled with enough subpar substitutes, they made it work this time  and Mr. Corgan finally got his band back.Almost. Because what would a Smashing Pumpkins reunion be without some drama?Beginning in July, the original group  minus a discontented Ms. Wretzky  will set out on a 38-date (and growing) summer tour titled Shiny and Oh So Bright. And though the shows will coincide with the Pumpkins 30th anniversary and exclusively feature songs from their first five essential albums, its not all a nostalgia trip. Trying to make this more of a reboot than a reunion, the band has been in the studio with the guru-producer Rick Rubin at work on new songs, which likely will be released as two EPs before years end.I would say this is the happiest time of the band, Mr. Corgan said, flanked by Mr. Chamberlin, who was relentlessly positive, and Mr. Iha, who seemed content to go with the flow.The question now is whether fans  who have weathered years of diminishing returns from Mr. Corgans mercurial antics, broken promises and odd decisions  will allow themselves to trust the band enough to care. And assuming they do, how long can this infamously dysfunctional musical family hold it together?Kevin Weatherly, the program director of the alternative station KROQ in Los Angeles, said that although a reunion may feel less impactful for a band that never really completely went away, the Pumpkins biggest hits have remained a constant presence, and a set list full of them could likely fill seats with old fans. You can count the bands on one hand that really defined the 90s alternative scene, he said, and I would put the Pumpkins up there with the biggest from that era.At the Four Seasons outside of Malibu, near where the band was finishing recording this month, the three original members were convincingly in sync and professional, if not affectionate. All three are fathers now and in interviews, separately and together, they expressed gratitude for the opportunity to demonstrate newfound maturity and once again tour arenas with their greatest hits.But with the exception of Mr. Chamberlin, 53, who seems to have fully evolved from a drug-addicted caricature of a rock drummer into a sober Midwestern dad who plays jazz, serves on school boards and does tech consultant work on the side, the Pumpkins remained very much in their classic roles. (In 1996, Mr. Chamberlin was booted from the group for three years after a touring keyboardist died from a heroin overdose after using with him in a hotel room.)Mr. Iha, 49, in a hoodie and polka-dot socks, had a slouchy teenage demeanor and stayed mostly quiet, while Mr. Corgan could not help but be the kind of frontman who, despite repeated assurances that he didnt want to interrupt or speak for the group, still did 90 percent of the talking.Its a bit akin to trying to rekindle a romance almost two decades later, Mr. Corgan said, away from his bandmates. The love is there, but, you know, is the language? Is the magic there?In the studio, they decided, it most certainly was. The band put out a demo of 15 songs with hopes of perfecting one single with Mr. Rubin to publicize the tour; the producer ended up picking eight songs he wanted to record.The energy of the performances are fiery and vibrant, Mr. Rubin wrote in an email, noting that the music fits well with classic Pumpkin catalog. He added: Its not unusual for there to exist volatility with passionate, creative people. It seems like theyve known each other long enough for many of the old wounds to have healed and they all seem like they are in a good place, so they came in with a healthy mind-set.Mr. Chamberlin said that the groups disagreements had never been musical, so upon reuniting, the new songs just poured out. Mr. Corgan concurred: It picks up where this unit left off, he said, adding that the fresh material saw him return to the Zero character that he had used to write some of the Smashing Pumpkins most wrenching lyrics.Where Mr. Corgan remained most conflicted  and most contradictory  was in grappling with his outsize public persona (a reputation that includes, but is not limited to, authoritarian control-freak, trash-talker and conspiracy theorist) and how it has affected his bands legacy.Never as revered as Nirvana, as coolly disaffected as Sonic Youth or as overblown as Guns N Roses, the Smashing Pumpkins made their name with sprawling musical ambition and all-out rock n roll chaos. They were a moody band with equally volatile songs that alternated between pummeling hard-rock stubbornness and fuzzy dream-pop serenity, instantly recognizable by Mr. Corgans sulky, nasal shrieks and moans. But at a certain point, the soap opera eclipsed even singles as monumental as 1979.If I kept my mouth shut, and if I kept my band together, Mr. Corgan, who wore silver Gucci high-tops and a trucker hat, said, wed be playing a lot bigger venues and we would be a lot more successful, and wed be in somebodys Rock & Roll Hall of Fame.Instead, hed leaned into a role that he described alternately as bitter contrarian, carnival barker, rebel force and sand in the oyster, alienating even his own collaborators.Im a class-A heel, Mr. Corgan admitted, using wrestling-speak for villain and adding an obscenity for emphasis. In terms of legendary heels in rock history, he added, Id put me two, behind Lou Reed, whos the king.Mr. Corgan said that, for a time, the controversy worked to our favor and noted that the Pumpkins pulled off five world tours and produced some 200 recorded songs. So how dysfunctional were we, really?But as the others fell away, first Ms. Wretzky in 1999 and the rest of the band soon after, Mr. Corgans shtick soured. To my discredit, I didnt realize that that formula only works if youre winning commercially, he said. And when the audience dwindled? Well, then youre just a jerk with a bad message.At the same time, Mr. Corgan maintained that he was largely in control of his meta-narrative. I would say 80 percent of the things that I get held up and mocked for, Im doing intentionally, he said. Its sort of funny to me that they actually think Im that stupid. Its, like, yeah, I work in wrestling  Im running you. (In fact, he promised another cat magazine cover is coming soon.)So it could be forgiven if some cynical observers saw the bands recent online spectacles as all part of a WWE-like plan.Though the Pumpkins had been teasing some sort of a reunion for months, the official announcement was pre-empted and undermined by the news from Ms. Wretzky that she would not be participating. First in pseudonymous comments on a rock blog and then in leaked text messages and an interview, the bassist detailed a long making-up and negotiation process that was ultimately derailed by miscommunication, worries from Mr. Corgan about her ability to perform and, of course, money.Ms. Wretzky said by phone that she had been discussing a potential Pumpkins comeback with Mr. Corgan for nearly two years, but felt in retrospect that he had never truly considered her to be the bands full-time bass player.He was stringing me along and using me to be able to say that it was, in fact, a reunion of all the members, she said. Billy can be incredibly charming and funny and fun, but when it comes to money and giving credit where credit is due and any kind of work situation, its not pretty.She added that while she was initially told she would make millions of dollars, there were disagreements about how the members would split the payday, with Mr. Corgan making twice as much as the others. I really wanted to do this tour for the right reasons, Ms. Wretzky said. If everybody was doing it for free, I would have done it for free.Mr. Corgan pointed out that he had not even seen Ms. Wretzky in 19 years and he called the exposure of their correspondence horrifying, though he declined to get into the specifics of her accusations.I think what she did demonstrates why she couldnt be involved, Mr. Corgan said. I was vulnerable and shared things and trusted that there was a reason to give it a chance, despite plenty of empirical evidence that that was not a wise decision. That bridge is now burned forever, he added. (Jack Bates will play bass on the tour; Jeff Schroeder will serve as a third guitarist.)The Pumpkins remaining baggage is less musical. While the band was never particularly political, it returns at a supercharged and divisive moment when Mr. Corgans associations with the right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who argues that the Sandy Hook school shooting was a hoax and Sept. 11 was an inside job, are particularly loaded.Some fans have wondered if the singer supports President Trump  a subject that makes Mr. Corgan testy.Im a free-market libertarian capitalist, he said, adding that he had not voted since 1992, when he cast a ballot for Bill Clinton. Im not anti-anything except establishment. I find institutions and systems suspicious.Still, he referred obliquely to the culture war, fake news, globalists, Maoists, purity tests, left-leaning groupthink, protected minority groups, mass hypnosis, social justice warriors and other terms used in some conservative circles to dismiss leftist identity politics. And he defied any opportunity to coddle conflicted fans.Im not going to be defined by other peoples version of the shadow world, Mr. Corgan said. Im not going to sit here and hold myself up as Mr. Pure, nor have I ever. Im not a virtue-signaler. I have no agenda. Im not a politician.Mr. Corgan was far more interested in reconciliation as a rock star.The band said that there had been no grand summit, no cataloging of specific grievances before getting back together, but rather a general understanding that they had all mellowed and were committed to moving forward with compassion and respect.I can sit here and tell you all day, I wrote the songs and I was alone in the studio at 12:00 at night, while you were drinking wine on the Riviera, you know? Mr. Corgan said. It seems really irrelevant. (He did, however, mention one grudge that lingered: After the band played its final shows together in 2000, Mr. Corgan proposed renting out the venue Metro in Chicago, our sort of home temple, and record a Let It Be-style farewell album; Mr. Iha refused.)Now, though, Mr. Iha implied that Mr. Corgan was less of a taskmaster  the guitarist was delighted that, recently, he could miss some band responsibilities to drop off his kids at school without any pushback.Mr. Iha added that he had tried not to pay much attention to Mr. Corgan or the Pumpkins in the intervening years. I didnt allow myself to think about it that much, he said. But there would be reminders  a song on the radio or in the grocery store.After he and Mr. Corgan had reconnected as friends, the guitarist made a cameo with the Pumpkins live for the first time last spring. But to Mr. Corgans disappointment, Its not like the minute he got up onstage with us the phones started ringing off the hook  in fact, it was the opposite, he said. So that silence was humbling.But the lack of industry clamor allowed the band to take its time in deciding exactly what a reunion would look like. It came to resemble an apology as much as a fresh start.Although the group was most energized when discussing its new work  He still has angst, Mr. Iha said proudly of Mr. Corgan, who began reciting new, still-dour lyrics  the Pumpkins also realized that by playing only their most loved songs on this tour, they could be, for once, crowd pleasers.Its a concession to a bigger goal, Mr. Corgan said, promising to play the music, for the first time, as faithfully as possible to its recorded version. We collectively need to rebuild the public trust in our brand.Already, there had been some schadenfreude around reports of sluggish ticket sales in certain cities, but Mr. Corgan was defiant. Are they all selling as well as I would like them to sell? No, he said, but he added, with eyes toward the international market, that the band was still ahead of estimates and selling more tickets overall than it did in 1997.Mr. Corgan insisted the tour would be a corrective after decades of hardheadedness. Were going to say, Look, yes, were brats. Yes, weve tested your patience. But this is our absolute best effort,  he explained. We charted a very, very, very difficult path, and have rarely received the credit. This is our time to have a party  we deserve a party.That said, Mr. Corgan slipped in, its probably a one-time thing.
NEW YORK   The Latest on reports that millions of Facebook users\' data was used to target political ads (all times local):6 p.m.Facebook has opted to take little more than baby steps to address its latest scandal over its users\' privacy.From the company\'s perspective, that makes perfect sense. Stronger safeguards on user data might damage Facebook\'s core business: using what it knows about you to sell ads that target your interests.Facebook is proposing only narrow countermeasures that address the specifics of the furor over Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that\'s accused of improperly obtaining data from some 50 million Facebook users for the purpose of influencing voters.But those steps don\'t get at what many outsiders see as bigger problems at Facebook. That includes its rampant data collection from users and its embrace of political ads that target individuals and small demographic groups with precision.___5:20 p.m.Facebook\'s chief operating officer says the company is taking steps to be more transparent about how its data gets used  and misused  and apologized for the privacy scandal involving a Trump-connected data-mining company that has been swirling around the social media giant.Facebook\'s No. 2 executive Sheryl Sandberg said in an interview on CNBC Thursday that the incident was a "huge breach of trust." She said she was sorry the company let so many people down.The comments came a day after CEO Mark Zuckerberg apologized during a CNN interview. And like Zuckerberg, Sandberg said she expected more regulation in Facebook\'s future.The pressure to impose more controls on influential tech companies such as Facebook, Google and Amazon has been building as their services and infiltrate more and more into daily life."It\'s not a question of \'if\' regulation it\'s a question of what type," she said.__1:55 p.m.Two Facebook employees co-authored a 2015 study with embattled Cambridge researcher Aleksandr Kogan that used anonymized data that tallied 57 billion friendships around the world.The study was hailed by Cambridge University as the first output of ongoing collaborations between Kogan\'s lab and Facebook. Facebook suspended Kogan last week for sharing data he gathered separately and passed on to data-mining company Cambridge Analytica, which is not affiliated with the university.Facebook told The Guardian in a report Thursday that it provided the data in 2013 but that it contained no personally identifiable information. Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The study also says Kogan used Amazon\'s Mechanical Turk to get U.S. respondents to download an app that gave him access to their Facebook data and the location of their friends.___1:30 p.m.The leaders of a key House committee are calling on Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about a privacy scandal involving a Trump-connected data-mining company.Reps. Greg Walden of Oregon and Frank Pallone of New Jersey say in a statement the "latest revelations regarding Facebook\'s use and security of user data raises many serious consumer protection concerns." They say their staffs received a briefing yesterday from Facebook officials that left many questions unanswered.Walden is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee and Pallone is the panel\'s top ranking Democrat.Their statement comes a day after Zuckerberg told CNN that he would be "happy" to testify before Congress.The lawmakers say they\'ll work with Facebook and Zuckerberg to set a date and time "in the near future."___12:35 p.m.Special counsel Robert Mueller is scrutinizing the connections between President Donald Trump\'s campaign and the data mining firm Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica has come under fierce criticism from U.S. and British lawmakers over reports it swiped the data of more than 50 million Facebook users to sway elections.Mueller\'s investigators have asked former campaign officials about the Trump campaign\'s data operations, particularly how it collected and utilized voter data in battleground states.That\'s according to a person with direct knowledge of the line of inquiry who isn\'t authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.___12:20 p.m.A personal assistant to Nigeria\'s President Muhammadu Buhari has responded to reports of Cambridge Analytica\'s involvement in the country\'s 2015 election, retweeting an image of a dejected-looking former leader Goodluck Jonathan.The post retweeted by Bashir Ahmad says: "When you give Cambridge Analytica $3m and still lose the election."A report in The Guardian newspaper cites people with knowledge of the campaign as saying Cambridge Analytica\'s parent company was hired by a Nigerian billionaire to ensure Jonathan won another term.The report cites the people with knowledge of the campaign as saying suspected Israeli hackers offered Cambridge Analytica access to Buhari\'s private information.The report says the company has disputed those claims but confirmed it had been hired for marketing and advertising services to help Jonathan\'s campaign.___12:05 p.m.The British Parliament\'s media committee has recalled the CEO of Cambridge Analytica, Alexander Nix, to testify in its investigation into fake news.Committee chair Damian Collins told Nix in a letter Thursday that there were "a number of inconsistencies in your evidence." Collins highlighted Nix\'s denial that he received data from the Global Science Research company, the entity set up by a Cambridge academic who created the app blamed for harvesting information from some 50 million Facebook accounts.A whistleblower has alleged that Cambridge Analytica improperly used the material in U.S. President Donald Trump\'s 2016 election campaign.Collins warned Nix that "giving false statements to a select committee is a very serious matter. We urge you to come forward and explain your comments to a committee hearing."___11:45 a.m.Israel says it is launching an investigation into Facebook following the scandal involving data mining firm Cambridge Analytica.The Israeli Privacy Protection Authority says Thursday the alleged privacy breach raised the possibility of "infringements" of Israel\'s privacy law. The law states that personal data may only be used for "the purpose for which it was given, with the consent of the individual," the authority says in a statement.The authority says it will investigate whether the personal data of Israelis was illegally used.Facebook has faced a backlash over the scandal. Politicians in the U.S. and Britain have called for the company to explain its data practices in detail. State attorneys general in Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey have opened investigations into the case. And some have rallied to a movement that urges people to delete their Facebook accounts entirely.___11:20 a.m.If you\'re fed up with Facebook, you\'re not alone.A growing number of people are deleting it, or at least wrestling with whether they should, in light of its latest privacy debacle. Facebook has been under fire with allegations that a Trump-linked data-mining firm stole information on tens of millions of users to influence elections.It might seem hard to quit, especially for those entwined with it for years.But it can be done. Mostly.Before deleting your account, rescue your posts and photos. You can also temporarily deactivate account if you\'re not sure you want to get rid of it permanently.___6:45 a.m.Germany\'s justice minister says she is calling in Facebook\'s European leadership to explain the scandal involving data mining firm Cambridge Analytica and detail whether German users\' data were affected.Katarina Barley said Thursday she has invited Facebook officials to a meeting at her ministry next week, though the exact date has yet to be determined.Barley, who is also responsible for consumer protection, says she wants "comprehensive information" from Facebook, including on "whether German user accounts are affected, and what Facebook plans to do to prevent a repeat of such cases."Barley said that European data law is already "significantly more user-friendly" than that in the U.S. but Europe should continue to work on its rules.___6:20 a.m.Britain\'s culture secretary says Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg\'s promises to change the social media giant in the aftermath of the Cambridge Analytica privacy debacle don\'t go far enough.Zuckerberg has apologized for weaknesses in the social network\'s policies that enabled an app to gain access to the personal information of 50 million users without their consent. He outlined steps to protect user data and said companies have a responsibility to act.But Culture Secretary Matt Hancock said Thursday that Parliament and society should set the rules as to what the appropriate for privacy and innovation  not any one company.Hancock says "that\'s the approach that we are taking. The big tech companies need to abide by the law and we are strengthening the law."
Browse all our Reader Ideas.Can elementary students both read The Times and use it to inspire their own journalism? Peter Meyer says they can.Mr. Meyer, a veteran journalist and the founder of an organization called School Life Media, explains how he helps students in third through sixth grade practice reading the news  and then helps them research, interview, take notes, write, rewrite and publish their own stories.Do you teach, or learn, with The New York Times? Tell us about it here._________Idea: Using journalism education to promote literacy in elementary school students.Instructor: Peter Meyer, creator of School Life Media, a nonprofit created to bring knowledge-based learning to low-income communities. Since 2016, Mr. Meyer has been piloting a junior journalism program in the Hudson City School District in upstate New York.Grade Level: 3-6 (all students, all proficiency levels)Why We Chose It: Mr. Meyer writes, Students will learn journalism by doing journalism and, in the process, learn a lot of content and skills. We appreciate how this curriculum uses The Times to engage even young students  and empowers them to do their own reporting, then celebrates the results._________What Mr. Meyer Did and Why, in His WordsAs an education journalist, it didnt take me long to recognize how important a role journalism could play in the recent movement to bring more content-based curriculums into public schools. This was part of what prompted me to launch School Life Media (SLM) in 2012, and journalism education soon became a major focus of what we were trying to do.From the beginning I knew we would use journalism to improve student literacy and from the beginning I knew that New York Times stories would be at the heart of the program. I have since compiled a list of dozens of Times stories that I believe not only beautifully illustrate journalisms broad content reach but also the quality of its reporting and writing in communicating that content. You can find some of them at the end of this post. In the summer of 2016, we introduced some 50 children  third through sixth grades  to the practice of journalism in various summer programs sponsored by the Hudson City School District in Hudson, N.Y.At the invitation of our districts middle school, the M.C. Smith Intermediate School, the following winter and spring we brought the program to one third-grade class and one fourth-grade class during the schools regular school day as part of those classes state-mandated literacy unit. This fit perfectly with our mission to deliver a journalism program to all students. There were approximately 25 students in each class, representing a demographic and academic mix, including special education students and students both below and above grade level.The pilot was successful, and the school principal invited us to present the program to the schools entire fifth grade, some 150 students in seven different classes, including one special education classroom. We began the year with a 12-lesson program and have since expanded it to 20 lessons. Each lesson is a 35-minute period at the end of the school day, in which we provide an instructor, an aide and a complete curriculum with lesson plans. The regular classroom teacher is in the classroom and assists us. He or she remains responsible for the classroom order, as well as ensuring that we are following all education rules and regulations. One of our goals is for teachers to continue to teach the program themselves after working with us.We introduced a two-track curriculum  a New York Times track and a Local Stories track  with detailed lesson plans and a Module at a Glance format developed by the third-grade teacher Marlene Parmentier. We emphasize three essential elements  the five senses, the five Ws and the five activities; four units  what is a journalist? taking notes, whats a story? and publish; and one golden rule  finish the assignment as best you can. Our students learn by doing.Reporters Notebooks, Press Conferences and Writing News Stories At the beginning of each course, students are given reporters notebooks and encouraged to write in them at every opportunity. They make their own press passes, take notes on every aspect of the class, and then read from those notes in front of the class (by standing and projecting). They learn to stand and ask questions of guests (in press conferences) and, of course, write stories, and design and create pages that include the name of their paper, the date of publication, the price of the paper (though not yet implemented, it is one of the kids favorite tasks!), a headline, a byline, an illustration and caption, and the story  the result, we hope, of their research and note taking.On the New York Times track, our lesson plans include New York Times stories such as Stick Insect Helps Scientist Study How Animals Move by James Gorman; Should You Let Your Dog Lick Your Face? by Christopher Mele, Why Doesnt the United States (Finally) Get Rid of the Penny? by Binyamin Appelbaum. Given the age of the students  third-to-fifth-grade  we introduced these stories gradually.All of the stories included a video; students were encouraged to take notes as they watched. We passed out a printed handout. A teacher then read the story out loud with students listening, circling words they didnt know as they listened. Students shared with the class the words they had circled. They filled out a Critical Reading form which asks students to identify such story characteristics as headline, byline and the five Ws. We played a story game: rearranging phrases and sentences from the story and asking the students to put them together.Though I was well aware that these Times stories were above reading level for many, if not most, of the students, I had also been in enough classrooms to know that students are sponges, and they absorb. Thus, our mantra: Students will learn journalism by doing journalism and, in the process, learn a lot of content and skills. It is a clich, but one worth remembering: Students rise to the challenge. We dont mandate mastery, only effort.With our local story track, we encourage students to focus on familiar subjects, including local guests brought to class to discuss the subject of the New York Times story. For instance, as part of the Stick Insect story we invited the local high schools robotics teacher to visit. For the penny story, we invited a local banker. We introduce the students to the press conference format: Students, wearing press passes that they have made, stand, identify themselves, the paper theyre with, and ask questions.Journalism Activities and RoutinesOur five activities include: Going to work. This means beginning each class with students writing in their reporters notebooks their names, the date, the time, the location, the class name and the weather (basically, a who, what, when, where and why). Quickwrites. On a subject chosen by the SLM instructor, write for two minutes in their reporters notebooks. Quick Review: What did we do last class (use your reporters notebook for reference). Press Conferences. An interview with a guest. Assignments. Write on a subject chosen by the SLM instructor that does not have tight time constraints. A perennial favorite is, Interview with my shoe. Oh yes, we also have a pub party at the last class, which includes passing out certificates of completion and awards (e.g., the Speed Demon Writing Award for filling the most pages in their reporters notebooks), as well as healthy foods like fruit and vegetable platters and water.As the final step, the students pages are then copied, bound and distributed.A note on computers: We have adopted a decidedly manual approach to our task. We use Smartboards for showing illustrations, stories and videos from the internet, but otherwise the students use paper and pencil, especially in their reporters notebooks. We print the copies of the Times stories. (We adults use Google Docs to share information.)We also encourage the use of all the senses, most especially hearing. Thus, we discourage the adults from writing words and sentences on the board for the kids to copy and instead encourage kids to raise their hands and ask for clarification, or ask their neighbors to help. Teachers reinforce this informational dynamic by asking various students to answer the questions, thus also reinforcing one of journalisms golden rules: two sources._________10 Times Articles Recommended by Peter Meyer for Using With StudentsAn Insect That Masters Water and AirAn Obsessive Collector Whos Drawn Royalty to BrooklynAt 100, Still Running for Her LifeCapturing the Life of a Flower That Blooms for Less Than a DayHajj Prep: Search Soul, Buy Sturdy Shoes, Pay the DentistIn More Backyards, the Chicken Comes FirstIts a Bird! No, Its a Crocodile! Synchronized Swimming Themes Can Be MystifyingMarine Life Thrives in Unlikely Place: Offshore Oil RigsNut? What Nut? The Squirrel Outwits to SurviveThe Curse of a Phoenix Weatherman: Finding New Ways to Say Its Hot_________Related Learning Network ResourcesReader Idea | For High School Online Newspapers, The Times Offers InspirationImproving Your News Diet: A Three-Step Lesson Plan for Teenagers and TeachersEvaluating Sources in a Post-Truth World: Ideas for Teaching and Learning About Fake News
LOS ANGELES  In the nearly two decades since the original lineup of the Smashing Pumpkins succumbed to rock-star clichs, crumbling under the weight of drugs, expectations and egos, the bands lead singer, songwriter and guitarist Billy Corgan has kept himself plenty busy.A confident mastermind with omnivorous ambitions, Mr. Corgan, 51, became a published poet; a professional wrestling executive and owner; a prolific Myspace and LiveJournal user; a curator of vintage photographs; an amateur talking head and recurring guest on Alex Joness Infowars programming; the proprietor of a Chicago-area tea shop; and a cat magazine cover star, among other side-hustles.There was no shortage of music either, including two solo albums and one with Zwan, as well as various iterations of the Smashing Pumpkins that Mr. Corgan has kept afloat since declaring in a 2005 full-page newspaper ad: I want my band back, and my songs, and my dreams.Yet despite reviving the Pumpkins brand with additional albums and regular touring over the years, Mr. Corgan, as the only constant member, has never again sniffed the creative or commercial success of the bands heyday. Amid four consecutive platinum albums in the 1990s, the grunge-adjacent group peaked by selling more than 10 million copies of Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness, a 28-track opus with no fewer than four era-defining hits, including Tonight, Tonight and Bullet With Butterfly Wings.Looking back at the aftermath of those accomplishments, Mr. Corgan can admit now that he was a bit like Don Quixote, wrestling with the ghost of the thing and carrying on a war that was very much my own war, he said this month. I was in denial about what Id given up.So it was with some hard-won humility that Mr. Corgan allowed himself to realize a few years back that the Pumpkins were just not the same without the original guitarist James Iha, who helped found the group as a Chicago teenager in 1988; Jimmy Chamberlin, the drummer who has been Mr. Corgans most frequent on-and-off collaborator; and the bassist DArcy Wretzky.After some tentative emails initiated by Mr. Iha  their first real contact since 2001  and then a few air-clearing dinners, Mr. Corgan began the process of slowly piecing back together his core creative unit. With enough time past, and having each toiled with enough subpar substitutes, they made it work this time  and Mr. Corgan finally got his band back.Almost. Because what would a Smashing Pumpkins reunion be without some drama?Beginning in July, the original group  minus a discontented Ms. Wretzky  will set out on a 38-date (and growing) summer tour titled Shiny and Oh So Bright. And though the shows will coincide with the Pumpkins 30th anniversary and exclusively feature songs from their first five essential albums, its not all a nostalgia trip. Trying to make this more of a reboot than a reunion, the band has been in the studio with the guru-producer Rick Rubin at work on new songs, which likely will be released as two EPs before years end.I would say this is the happiest time of the band, Mr. Corgan said, flanked by Mr. Chamberlin, who was relentlessly positive, and Mr. Iha, who seemed content to go with the flow.The question now is whether fans  who have weathered years of diminishing returns from Mr. Corgans mercurial antics, broken promises and odd decisions  will allow themselves to trust the band enough to care. And assuming they do, how long can this infamously dysfunctional musical family hold it together?Kevin Weatherly, the program director of the alternative station KROQ in Los Angeles, said that although a reunion may feel less impactful for a band that never really completely went away, the Pumpkins biggest hits have remained a constant presence, and a set list full of them could likely fill seats with old fans. You can count the bands on one hand that really defined the 90s alternative scene, he said, and I would put the Pumpkins up there with the biggest from that era.At the Four Seasons outside of Malibu, near where the band was finishing recording this month, the three original members were convincingly in sync and professional, if not affectionate. All three are fathers now and in interviews, separately and together, they expressed gratitude for the opportunity to demonstrate newfound maturity and once again tour arenas with their greatest hits.But with the exception of Mr. Chamberlin, 53, who seems to have fully evolved from a drug-addicted caricature of a rock drummer into a sober Midwestern dad who plays jazz, serves on school boards and does tech consultant work on the side, the Pumpkins remained very much in their classic roles. (In 1996, Mr. Chamberlin was booted from the group for three years after a touring keyboardist died from a heroin overdose after using with him in a hotel room.)Mr. Iha, 49, in a hoodie and polka-dot socks, had a slouchy teenage demeanor and stayed mostly quiet, while Mr. Corgan could not help but be the kind of frontman who, despite repeated assurances that he didnt want to interrupt or speak for the group, still did 90 percent of the talking.Its a bit akin to trying to rekindle a romance almost two decades later, Mr. Corgan said, away from his bandmates. The love is there, but, you know, is the language? Is the magic there?In the studio, they decided, it most certainly was. The band put out a demo of 15 songs with hopes of perfecting one single with Mr. Rubin to publicize the tour; the producer ended up picking eight songs he wanted to record.The energy of the performances are fiery and vibrant, Mr. Rubin wrote in an email, noting that the music fits well with classic Pumpkin catalog. He added: Its not unusual for there to exist volatility with passionate, creative people. It seems like theyve known each other long enough for many of the old wounds to have healed and they all seem like they are in a good place, so they came in with a healthy mind-set.Mr. Chamberlin said that the groups disagreements had never been musical, so upon reuniting, the new songs just poured out. Mr. Corgan concurred: It picks up where this unit left off, he said, adding that the fresh material saw him return to the Zero character that he had used to write some of the Smashing Pumpkins most wrenching lyrics.Where Mr. Corgan remained most conflicted  and most contradictory  was in grappling with his outsize public persona (a reputation that includes, but is not limited to, authoritarian control-freak, trash-talker and conspiracy theorist) and how it has affected his bands legacy.Never as revered as Nirvana, as coolly disaffected as Sonic Youth or as overblown as Guns N Roses, the Smashing Pumpkins made their name with sprawling musical ambition and all-out rock n roll chaos. They were a moody band with equally volatile songs that alternated between pummeling hard-rock stubbornness and fuzzy dream-pop serenity, instantly recognizable by Mr. Corgans sulky, nasal shrieks and moans. But at a certain point, the soap opera eclipsed even singles as monumental as 1979.If I kept my mouth shut, and if I kept my band together, Mr. Corgan, who wore silver Gucci high-tops and a trucker hat, said, wed be playing a lot bigger venues and we would be a lot more successful, and wed be in somebodys Rock & Roll Hall of Fame.Instead, hed leaned into a role that he described alternately as bitter contrarian, carnival barker, rebel force and sand in the oyster, alienating even his own collaborators.Im a class-A heel, Mr. Corgan admitted, using wrestling-speak for villain and adding an obscenity for emphasis. In terms of legendary heels in rock history, he added, Id put me two, behind Lou Reed, whos the king.Mr. Corgan said that, for a time, the controversy worked to our favor and noted that the Pumpkins pulled off five world tours and produced some 200 recorded songs. So how dysfunctional were we, really?But as the others fell away, first Ms. Wretzky in 1999 and the rest of the band soon after, Mr. Corgans shtick soured. To my discredit, I didnt realize that that formula only works if youre winning commercially, he said. And when the audience dwindled? Well, then youre just a jerk with a bad message.At the same time, Mr. Corgan maintained that he was largely in control of his meta-narrative. I would say 80 percent of the things that I get held up and mocked for, Im doing intentionally, he said. Its sort of funny to me that they actually think Im that stupid. Its, like, yeah, I work in wrestling  Im running you. (In fact, he promised another cat magazine cover is coming soon.)So it could be forgiven if some cynical observers saw the bands recent online spectacles as all part of a WWE-like plan.Though the Pumpkins had been teasing some sort of a reunion for months, the official announcement was pre-empted and undermined by the news from Ms. Wretzky that she would not be participating. First in pseudonymous comments on a rock blog and then in leaked text messages and an interview, the bassist detailed a long making-up and negotiation process that was ultimately derailed by miscommunication, worries from Mr. Corgan about her ability to perform and, of course, money.Ms. Wretzky said by phone that she had been discussing a potential Pumpkins comeback with Mr. Corgan for nearly two years, but felt in retrospect that he had never truly considered her to be the bands full-time bass player.He was stringing me along and using me to be able to say that it was, in fact, a reunion of all the members, she said. Billy can be incredibly charming and funny and fun, but when it comes to money and giving credit where credit is due and any kind of work situation, its not pretty.She added that while she was initially told she would make millions of dollars, there were disagreements about how the members would split the payday, with Mr. Corgan making twice as much as the others. I really wanted to do this tour for the right reasons, Ms. Wretzky said. If everybody was doing it for free, I would have done it for free.Mr. Corgan pointed out that he had not even seen Ms. Wretzky in 19 years and he called the exposure of their correspondence horrifying, though he declined to get into the specifics of her accusations.I think what she did demonstrates why she couldnt be involved, Mr. Corgan said. I was vulnerable and shared things and trusted that there was a reason to give it a chance, despite plenty of empirical evidence that that was not a wise decision. That bridge is now burned forever, he added. (Jack Bates will play bass on the tour; Jeff Schroeder will serve as a third guitarist.)The Pumpkins remaining baggage is less musical. While the band was never particularly political, it returns at a supercharged and divisive moment when Mr. Corgans associations with the right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, who argues that the Sandy Hook school shooting was a hoax and Sept. 11 was an inside job, are particularly loaded.Some fans have wondered if the singer supports President Trump  a subject that makes Mr. Corgan testy.Im a free-market libertarian capitalist, he said, adding that he had not voted since 1992, when he cast a ballot for Bill Clinton. Im not anti-anything except establishment. I find institutions and systems suspicious.Still, he referred obliquely to the culture war, fake news, globalists, Maoists, purity tests, left-leaning groupthink, protected minority groups, mass hypnosis, social justice warriors and other terms used in some conservative circles to dismiss leftist identity politics. And he defied any opportunity to coddle conflicted fans.Im not going to be defined by other peoples version of the shadow world, Mr. Corgan said. Im not going to sit here and hold myself up as Mr. Pure, nor have I ever. Im not a virtue-signaler. I have no agenda. Im not a politician.Mr. Corgan was far more interested in reconciliation as a rock star.The band said that there had been no grand summit, no cataloging of specific grievances before getting back together, but rather a general understanding that they had all mellowed and were committed to moving forward with compassion and respect.I can sit here and tell you all day, I wrote the songs and I was alone in the studio at 12:00 at night, while you were drinking wine on the Riviera, you know? Mr. Corgan said. It seems really irrelevant. (He did, however, mention one grudge that lingered: After the band played its final shows together in 2000, Mr. Corgan proposed renting out the venue Metro in Chicago, our sort of home temple, and record a Let It Be-style farewell album; Mr. Iha refused.)Now, though, Mr. Iha implied that Mr. Corgan was less of a taskmaster  the guitarist was delighted that, recently, he could miss some band responsibilities to drop off his kids at school without any pushback.Mr. Iha added that he had tried not to pay much attention to Mr. Corgan or the Pumpkins in the intervening years. I didnt allow myself to think about it that much, he said. But there would be reminders  a song on the radio or in the grocery store.After he and Mr. Corgan had reconnected as friends, the guitarist made a cameo with the Pumpkins live for the first time last spring. But to Mr. Corgans disappointment, Its not like the minute he got up onstage with us the phones started ringing off the hook  in fact, it was the opposite, he said. So that silence was humbling.But the lack of industry clamor allowed the band to take its time in deciding exactly what a reunion would look like. It came to resemble an apology as much as a fresh start.Although the group was most energized when discussing its new work  He still has angst, Mr. Iha said proudly of Mr. Corgan, who began reciting new, still-dour lyrics  the Pumpkins also realized that by playing only their most loved songs on this tour, they could be, for once, crowd pleasers.Its a concession to a bigger goal, Mr. Corgan said, promising to play the music, for the first time, as faithfully as possible to its recorded version. We collectively need to rebuild the public trust in our brand.Already, there had been some schadenfreude around reports of sluggish ticket sales in certain cities, but Mr. Corgan was defiant. Are they all selling as well as I would like them to sell? No, he said, but he added, with eyes toward the international market, that the band was still ahead of estimates and selling more tickets overall than it did in 1997.Mr. Corgan insisted the tour would be a corrective after decades of hardheadedness. Were going to say, Look, yes, were brats. Yes, weve tested your patience. But this is our absolute best effort,  he explained. We charted a very, very, very difficult path, and have rarely received the credit. This is our time to have a party  we deserve a party.That said, Mr. Corgan slipped in, its probably a one-time thing.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Boris Johnsons Hitler comment, Mark Zuckerbergs admission and Emmanuel Macrons big challenge. Heres what you need to know: Tensions between Britain and Russia hit a new peak.Boris Johnson, the top British diplomat, told Parliament that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, would use the World Cup this summer as a propaganda tool, much as Hitler did with the 1936 Olympic Games.In Moscow, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned foreign diplomats to suggest Britain itself may have been responsible for poisoning a former Russian double agent and his daughter with a nerve agent. (The British ambassador did not attend.)Separately, European leaders are expected to approve a deal today to avoid a sudden change of trade rules when Britain quits the European Union next March. But Brexit supporters are angry about policy retreats from London._____ President Trump plans today to announce at least $50 billion worth of annual tariffs and other penalties against China for its theft of technology and trade secrets, which administration officials say has robbed American companies of billions of dollars in revenue and killed thousands of jobs. Above, Mr. Trump led a delegation of top U.S. companies to China last year.The measures represent Mr. Trumps most aggressive move yet against a fast-rising economic rival that he has accused of preying on the United States.Mr. Trump also defended his decision to congratulate Mr. Putin on his re-election, and he lashed out at the news media for reporting that he had disregarded the advice of his national security team in doing so._____ We also made mistakes, theres more to do, and we need to step up and do it.Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, broke his silence on the growing furor over reports that outside companies harvested data from 50 million accounts.He said Facebook would crack down on outside apps and bolster privacy. The company has lost about $50 billion in market value since the reports were published, and growing numbers of users are considering deleting their accounts. British officials investigating fake news say Mr. Zuckerberg misled them and have summoned him for an explanation.On The Daily, we talk to one of our reporters who broke the story and discuss how a key data scientist at Cambridge Analytica, one of the companies involved, became a whistle-blower._____ A proposal by President Emmanuel Macron to erase the special status  and cut the generous benefits  of French railway workers has created a new and formidable challenge to his campaign to reshape France: strikes.A wave of nationwide walkouts by public sector workers, the first since Mr. Macron took office, begins today. Trains, planes and schools will be affected, and how he responds will be a signal of his resolve._____ The European authorities proposed revamping how digital businesses in the region are taxed, outlining broad changes that they hope will curb tax avoidance across the bloc. Above, Googles headquarters in Dublin. The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Under a new chairman, Jerome Powell, it signaled two more increases this year. Swiss prosecutors began an investigation into the French luxury group Kering, owner of Gucci and Saint Laurent, widening the legal scrutiny of its tax practices in Europe. One of Turkeys leading media groups was sold to an ally of the countrys president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a move widely seen as likely to further limit the independence of the Turkish news media. Our technology reporter in Mumbai explains how cheap mobile data is changing India, and why WhatsApp is indispensable.  Heres a snapshot of global markets. Israel confirmed it had destroyed a Syrian nuclear reactor in 2007, breaking years of secrecy as tensions mount over Irans nuclear ambitions. (Israel released the above image yesterday.) [The New York Times] The ashes of Stephen Hawking, the renowned cosmologist, will be interred next to the grave of Sir Isaac Newton at Westminster Abbey. [The New York Times]  In the U.S., a portrait emerged of the bomber who terrorized Austin, Tex., hours after he blew himself up. The police say they found his video confession. [The New York Times] More than 20 people were at the table for President Trumps meeting with the Saudi crown prince. None were women. [The New York Times] Bird populations across the French countryside have collapsed by a third over the last 15 years, and scientists say pesticides are to blame. The situation is catastrophic, a researcher said. [The Guardian] Former  President Nicolas Sarkozy of France faces corruption charges in connection with his 2007 election campaign, which is alleged to have received illegal financial support from the Libyan government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. [The New York Times] Kosovos Parliament ratified a border agreement with Montenegro, though opposition lawmakers tried to stop the proceedings by releasing tear gas. [Reuters]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Brighten up the usual salmon dinner with a sauce of capers, scallions, parsley and garlic. Thinking of going to Brazil? Youll need this vaccination. Heres how to protect your data on Facebook. Nepal wants to remove 200,000 pounds of trekkers garbage in a campaign aimed at saving the glory of the Everest region. (Theyre going to need more yaks.) In Germany, a growing number of art museums offer tours for dementia patients, designed to bring stimulation and solace.  A scientist in Australia asked people across the country to mail her fallen feathers, like the ones shown above, so she could map bird movements as the countrys wetlands disappear. The response, she says, has been really exciting.On this day in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Eisenstadt v. Baird that its unconstitutional for a state to deny unmarried people access to contraception.The court  ruled in 1965 that state bans on contraceptives for married couples violated their privacy rights. But a few states still restricted access for single people.Bill Baird, an activist, violated one such law in Massachusetts. He appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, which struck down the law.Justice William Brennan held that the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment because it discriminated between married and unmarried people.The case became an important precedent in subsequent landmark rulings by the Supreme Court, including its 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized abortion rights, and, more recently, the 2015 decision guaranteeing a right to same-sex marriage.A movie about Mr. Bairds case is in development. Above, Mr. Baird in 2012.Mr. Baird has continued working as an activist, but his legacy is complicated by what The Times described in 1993 as an unapologetic zealotry and a willingness to criticize even his ideologic allies. Planned Parenthood once called him an embarrassment.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
