ATLANTA   A fake Facebook post is spreading fears that venomous snakes are lurking in the sewers of a Georgia town, and the city attorney has expressed concerns to the social media network that it\'s creating confusion and panic.Calhoun Mayor James Palmer says residents have asked him whether it\'s safe to walk the streets.Facebook Inc. has been under scrutiny amid complaints about fake news, fake accounts and concerns about political groups using account holders\' information to manipulate elections.The snake alert is on a Facebook account using the City of Calhoun\'s name. It says a local officer killed a copperhead as it slithered from a sewer and warns of more snakes in the underground system.The post  which includes pictures of an enormous snake  has been shared more than 150,000 times since it appeared Monday.A few weeks ago, the site announced that an alligator had been spotted at a local boat ramp, and advised caution, the mayor said. The site followed up a few days later with a "Live Gator Cam.""A lot of people see it and automatically think it\'s true," Palmer said.But the snake story is "about as true as the alligator on the boat ramp," the mayor said.The Facebook site on Wednesday included a note in one section saying that it\'s a "satire page" and not affiliated with the city.A key concern for the city, though, is that the page has used city emblems and has appeared to be official, the mayor said. It\'s still titled "City Of Calhoun, Gordon County GA.""I think people look at it and assume it has more credibility when it appears that way," Palmer said.Facebook\'s press office didn\'t respond to multiple phone and email messages Wednesday.

LONDON  The German photographer Wolfgang Tillmans has had a decades-long love affair with printed media. Since making his name in the 1990s taking pictures of night life in Hamburg, Germany, for the British counterculture magazine i-D, his work has appeared in countless publications  from fashion titles to newspaper supplements  as well as in galleries and museums. Mr. Tillmans has long been concerned with how his work appears on the printed page.The artist, the first photographer to win the Turner Prize, in 2000, had a large, midcareer retrospective at Tate Modern in London last year. Titled Wolfgang Tillmans: 2017, the exhibition delved into the photographers longstanding interest in the representation of truth in media and politics.Mr. Tillmanss latest project put him in the editors chair. He is the guest editor of Jahresring, a collection of essays about art and culture published annually in Germany since 1954. This years edition, What Is Different?, explores the increasing rejection of facts in todays political and social discourse, with a series of essays and interviews with activists, academics and politicians, interspersed with photographs by Mr. Tillmans.In an interview, Mr. Tillmans explained why he embarked on the project and spoke about the role of art in a post-truth world. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.The jumping off point for the collection is the theory of the backfire effect. What is it, and how did you become interested in it?I started a project for an installation called Truth Study Center in 2005. I juxtaposed texts of great lucidity and awareness with absurd, humorous and also crazy false statements. All of this was, of course, at a time when no one talked about post-truth or fake news. As this became the center of all politics, I realized it is now everywhere, and I dont need to juxtapose these different claims because they are so out in the open.I wanted to go further and look at the science behind it. Around 2014, I read about the backfire effect, first described by Brendan Nyhan and his colleagues, which describes what people who believe in a falsehood do when shown a collection of facts that contradict their opinion. It doesnt shift their opinion to the more truthful or factual, but instead it actually reinforces their belief in the falsehood.Theres a lot of text in the book, but its also an art book. How do you view the relationship between art and politics?I love that art is useless and that it has no purpose. That makes art so incredibly powerful. And so, I dont think one should turn to artists instantly and ask, What are they saying? I think, really, every private person should take part in democracy, because if you dont, others choose for you.I think we all have to ask ourselves if there are people who have nothing else to do but push against our liberal society, who is actually defending it if we are not. If you feel an urgency and you dont act upon it, then that is the whole problem in a nutshell.In 2016, you produced a series of posters to campaign for Britain to remain in the European Union, ahead of the referendum here. What is your view on what has happened since?The reason I felt such urgency to rebel against Brexit has, of course, to do with my 28 years living in England and Germany, but also because I really predicted at the time that it will be all about language. It will turn into an ugly blame game, and when the promises of a glorious post-Brexit future do not turn out right, no one will say Well, maybe we got it wrong.Even though Im not campaigning in the U.K. anymore, I really think anything that could stop Brexit is a good thing. Even though it would be seen as anti-democratic, I think the pain and the antagonism in language and the sentiments of this divorce is more harmful.What were you most surprised by when putting together this collection?I learned how, for the last 50 years or so in the Western world, authoritarian people have been kept widely at bay. They have had to accept feminist, nonracist and L.G.B.T. progress, social justice, international cooperation and anti-nationalism. They had to accept all of that, and things in society changed for the better so dramatically because individuals believed in it and spoke up for it. So one should see it this way around: Trump being in power and Brexit succeeding is not the reason for despair, but it is really a backlash to 50 years of civil rights and liberal progress.What conversations do you hope the work will provoke?An opening up to uncomfortable questions about oneself. On the second-to-last page is a collage text piece with a sentence written on it: How likely is it that only I am right in this matter? This sense of humility, I think, is the precondition for positive change because without humility, its so easy to lose perspective. The moment I say this, alarm bells go off in my head; I should not even talk about humility in a confident way because that isnt humble.What then is the role of art is in a post-truth world?We call it that, post-truth, but we should call it lies  an era where some people are not ashamed to openly lie for their own ends.I do believe that the true nature of things comes out, and thats why intentions in art are always revealed in the work. If artists are interested in their fellow humans and in this society, that will also come out in the work. I guess this interest is also called solidarity. Again, I dont feel like artists should particularly be singled out, but we all need to question if we show enough solidarity with our fellow humans.
RIO DE JANEIRO   Thousands of Brazilians on Tuesday demanded answers about the assassination of Rio de Janeiro councilwoman Marielle Franco, an attack that has shaken the nation and remains a mystery a week later.Artists, activists and Franco\'s sister spoke during an emotional evening protest that included calls for an independent investigation into the death of the activist who frequently criticized police brutality, particularly against blacks in poor communities."It\'s black blood in the street. Another warrior who has fallen," said protester Carla Moura, adding that "repression will not silence our voices."Franco and a driver were shot and killed last week after she had participated in an event on empowering black women. Her death has touched a nerve with many in a nation where more than 50 percent identify as black or mixed race, but where most politicians are white men.The long-time activist was elected to the city council in 2016 and had been a vocal critic of the military\'s takeover of security in Rio the last month amid a spike in violence.For many, she was a symbol of change because she herself emerged from Mare, a warren of slums that is one of Rio\'s roughest areas. Latin America\'s largest nation is one of the most unequal in the world, making Franco\'s rise in politics all the more unusual.A large banner at the protest outlined several aspects of Franco that drew many Brazilians to her."Marielle: Woman, mother, revolutionary, feminist, black, lesbian, fight, always," it read.No arrests have been made and it\'s still unclear what motivated the attack.Earlier Tuesday, military spokesman Col. Roberto Itamar told reporters he was "confident that in the short term we will have news and the crime will be solved." He did not elaborate.Anielle Silva, Franco\'s sister, told protesters she would not rest until the case was solved."I\'m seeking justice with blood in my eyes," she said.Silva also railed against what she called "fake news" about the fallen councilwoman. In recent days, several theories have been floated online, including that Franco had ties with drug traffickers who control many areas in Rio."Marielle was never a gangster. We were never financed by drug traffickers and she never married a gangster," said Silva. "They are not going to destroy what my sister built."
VATICAN CITY   Pope Francis\' communications chief resigned on Wednesday after a scandal over a doctored letter, a public relations fiasco for the Vatican two months after the pope had warned of the dangers of fake news.A brief Vatican statement on Wednesday said Francis had "accepted the resignation" of Monsignor Dario Vigano, Prefect of the Secretariat for Communication. A Vatican source said the Italian prelate had been urged to offer it.The resignation was unusually swift by Vatican standards, coming little more than a week after the media ruckus started.The scandal centred around Vigano\'s handling of a missive to him from former Pope Benedict, 90, who resigned in 2013 and lives in near-isolation in the Vatican grounds.Benedict\'s letter was meant to remain private but Vigano read out passages at a presentation on March 12 of an 11-booklet series on the theology of Pope Francis, quoting the former pontiff as rejecting the "stupid prejudice" of those who criticised the learning of his successor.Vigano released a photo of the first page, but the bottom part was blurred and most of the second page hidden by books.    A press release also omitted a paragraph in which Benedict apologised for not having had the time to read all 11 volumes and thus declining a request to write an introduction.FORMER POPE IRRITATEDThe final paragraph, released for the first time on Saturday after a media leak, went further, showing that Benedict was clearly irritated by the fact German theologian Peter Hunermann had been chosen to write one of the volumes.Hunermann, Benedict said, had "led anti-papal initiatives" during his 2005-2013 papacy.Vigano, 55, oversaw the Vatican\'s communications departments, including its press office, radio, television and internet units after the pope decided to put them all under one umbrella in a much-touted 2015 reform.In a letter dated March 19, Vigano told the pope he wanted to step aside for the good of the Church. The pope, in a response dated Wednesday, accepted the resignation "not without difficulty" and asked him to remain as an advisor to the department he once headed.Three Vatican officials, speaking privately to Reuters, had  criticised Vigano, saying he had violated the former pontiff\'s trust and used Benedict\'s letter to promote the publishing initiative.Luis Badilla, head of the Vatican-affiliated and widely read website Il Sismografo, on Saturday called on Vigano to be removed, describing the letter episode as "a gigantic mess".Badilla said in an editorial that Vigano and the head of the Vatican\'s publishing house, Father Bruno Cesareo, "have some explaining to do" and that "consequences must be drawn".In a statement on Saturday, Vigano\'s department said there had been "in no way an attempt at censorship" and only what was "opportune and relative" had been released because the letter was private.On Jan. 24, the pope issued a document condemning fake news as satanic, saying it led to the spread of arrogance and hatred.Conservative critics of Francis saw the blurring of the photograph and Vigano\'s selective use of the letter as part of a plot to censor the thoughts of the former pope.Many conservative Catholics still look up to Benedict as a bulwark against liberals, and have lambasted Francis for being too lenient on divorced Catholics and homosexuals.(Reporting By Philip Pullella; Editing by Crispian Balmer)
SINGAPORE   Singapore passed a law on Wednesday making it possible to ban photographs or videos of terror attack sites or communicating information about security operations amid criticism from rights groups that the move could curb press freedoms.The wealthy city-state ranks as one of the safest countries in the world, but authorities say it has been a target of Islamic extremists since the 1990s and they have stepped up efforts to deter an attack.The bill, proposed last month, includes provisions to ban anyone from taking videos or photographs of the area of a terror attack or transmitting them.It can also ban communication of text or audio messages about the security operations in the area. The measures can be taken under a "communications stop" order if approved by the home affairs minister and activated by the police commissioner."The CSO (communications stop order) is not an information blackout throughout the terror incident," Josephine Teo, minister in the Prime Minister\'s Office, told parliament ahead of the vote.Information leaks to terrorists could risk the lives of security officers and those caught up in an attack, the home affairs ministry has said, citing media coverage of police operations in a 2015 attack in Paris and a 2008 attack in India\'s financial capital of Mumbai.Groups that advocate press freedom have expressed concern that the law gives the government the power to restrict what can be reported.Human Rights Watch separately said the inclusion of public protests as an example of a "serious incident" meant the law can be used to infringe on freedom of speech.Anyone planning a public protest is required to obtain a police permit in Singapore and are only allowed at a designated area in a small downtown park. Only Singaporean citizens and permanent residents can participate.The Singaporean governments history of persecuting dissenting voices makes the proposed public order law particularly frightening, Asia director at Human Rights Watch Brad Adams said in a press release last week."Public protests are not a threat that justify the wholesale repeal of basic rights."Breaches of the new measures could lead to a maximum fine of S$20,000 ($15,200) and prison terms of up to two years.The passage of the security law comes as Singapore holds a landmark public hearing on how to tackle the threat of fake news.(Editing by Jack Kim and Nick Macfie)
 From Morgan Parkers There Are More Beautiful Things Than Beyonc (Tin House Books, 2017, Page 30). Parker, a poet and an editor, is also the author of Other Peoples Comfort Keeps Me Up at Night.Every culture is a vast carpet of interwoven references: clichs, fables, jingles, lullabies, warnings, jokes, memes. To be a part of that culture means that it only takes a few words, the tiniest head fake, to set your mind racing along a familiar track. You can lead a horse to. There once was a man from. When the moon hits your eye. If you liked it then you shoulda.One trick of art is to constantly invoke  and then manipulate and complicate  these familiar mental scripts. The artist sets your mind on a well-worn road, and then, just as you settle into that automatic groove, yanks you suddenly in another direction. Its the same trick as a crossover dribble. Great art is always, if you will, breaking your minds ankles.In her poem The Book of Negroes, Morgan Parker hits us with a nasty crossover in the very first sentence. She invokes one of the most famous opening lines in American music  Gershwins Summertime, and the living is easy  a cultural script so powerful that, even without music, even as just words on a page, our internal orchestras automatically swell, and we hear the mournful crooning of Billie Holiday or Sam Cooke or Janis Joplin or Billy Stewart or Bradley Nowell of the band Sublime  whichever version you happen to know best. The familiar melody unrolls, slowly. Summertime, and the living is. ... Just as we reach that final, crucial word, however, Morgan replaces easy with its opposite: extraordinarily difficult. Its a perfect little moment of comic whiplash. A negative in place of a positive. Two clunky Latinate words in place of the easy easy. And it tells us, very clearly, that whats coming is not what we have been taught to expect.
ROME  Even by the Vaticans minimal standards of transparency, doctoring the letter of a retired pope to make him seem more supportive of his successor turns out to be a bit much.Pope Francis on Wednesday accepted the resignation of Msgr. Dario Vigano, the head of the Vaticans communications department, after an episode of airbrushing and selective editing had prompted cries of Lettergate and accusations that the Vatican had spread the type of fake news the pope had recently denounced.The resignation of Monsignor Vigano, a close aide to the pope, represented another setback in what has been a difficult stretch for the 81-year-old pontiff, who just completed his fifth year in office.Remarks Francis made in Chile that were offensive to victims of sexual abuse focused attention on an explosive issue that has threatened to derail his papacy. The success of anti-immigrant forces in Italian elections in March seemed a sharp rebuke in Francis own backyard to his message of tolerance for migrants. His financial reforms have stalled, and conservatives appalled by what they consider his break with church doctrine and orthodoxy have ramped up their critiques.It is a rather critical moment of Francis papacy, said Sandro Magister, a Vatican expert at the Italian weekly LEspresso. He said that based on the changes made by Francis its hard to call him a reformist now and that his greatest achievement had been in terms of church image.But it was Monsignor Vigano, who as communications director was the keeper of the popes image, who created the headache this time.In an apparent effort to buttress Francis against criticism from conservatives for breaking with his predecessors doctrinal orthodoxy, Monsignor Vigano held a news conference last week to publicize a new series of books about the popes theology. At the news conference, Monsignor Vigano said he had asked Francis predecessor, Benedict, to write a page or a page and a half of dense theology in his clear and punctual style and that the 90-year-old retired pope responded instead with a beautiful, personal letter.In the letter, Benedict condemned the foolish prejudice of critics who depicted Francis as a pragmatic pastor without theology and Benedict as an academic with his head in the clouds. Benedict added that the books helped clarify the interior continuity between the two pontificates, with all the differences in style and temperament.Monsignor Vigano and the Vatican disseminated a photo of the letter and spun it as Benedicts seal of good papal housekeeping for Francis. The suggestion was that Benedict had read and approved of the books. But there were some key omissions.It turned out that the Vatican had purposely blurred the final two lines on the letters first page in which Benedict acknowledged that he had not actually read the books and that he was physically unable and too busy to contribute his own theological assessment of Pope Francis. Distorted though it was, at least the first page saw the light of day. In the photo, the letters second page sits buried under the books about Francis. Only Benedicts signature was visible.Monsignor Vigano, in a sort of Keystone Clergy moment, himself drew attention to the omissions in the photo when he read the missing text at Mondays news conference. Mr. Magister, who was at the news conference, transcribed and published the remarks.The Associated Press first drew attention to what appeared to be blurred lines in the photo of the letter. Its discovery prompted an outcry, especially among Catholic conservatives who complained that their hero, Pope Benedict, was being exploited to paper over Francis doctrinal deficiencies. The Twitter hashtag #releasetheletter went viral. The Catholic Herald, a Catholic publication, ran the headline Blurred Lines: Vatican Manipulation of Photo Becomes the Story.Under pressure to address what it called presumed manipulation, the Vatican on Saturday released Benedicts full letter, of which almost the entire second page consisted of Benedict expressing his surprise that the 11-volume Theology of Pope Francis included a German author who, Benedict said, had targeted his teachings with virulent and anti-papist attacks. He said he was too busy to read the books and offer his assessment.Im certain you can understand why Im declining, Benedict signed off.The Vatican claimed it originally released only the portion of the letter it considered opportune and relevant.But it did not look good. Especially because Pope Francis, who frequently laments journalists who fail to report the full story, released a major document in January condemning fake news. In the document, he said deception in the media went back to the snake in the Garden of Eden.That was not a good ancestry for the Vaticans communications director.In recent days many controversies have arisen regarding my work, which beyond my intentions, has destabilized the complex and great work of reform that you entrusted to me, Monsignor Vigano, 55, wrote in his resignation letter.Perhaps in an effort to compensate for the previous redaction, the Vatican on Wednesday released what appeared to be the full text of the letters between Monsignor Vigano and the pope, who had hired him as communications director in 2015.On Wednesday, Francis wrote back to Monsignor Vigano and said, I respect your decision and I welcome, not without some struggle, your resignation.The Vatican press office added that until Francis names a replacement, the communications office will be run by its second-in-command, Msgr. Lucio Ruiz. The pope asked Monsignor Vigano to stay on to advise the future director, it said.A scandal in a communications department that had been a source of the popes strength, Mr. Magister said, was not a good sign for Francis reform agenda. This is only the umpteenth proof of the failure, he said.
VATICAN CITY   The head of the Vatican\'s communications department resigned Wednesday after he mischaracterized a private letter from retired Pope Benedict XVI, then had a photo of it digitally manipulated and sent out to the media.A week after The Associated Press exposed the doctored photo, Pope Francis accepted the resignation of Monsignor Dario Vigano and named his deputy to run the Secretariat for Communications for now. But Francis kept Vigano on in the department in a lesser capacity, indicating that he doesn\'t believe the problem was all that grave.The so-called "Lettergate" scandal erupted last week when Vigano read aloud part of a private letter from Benedict at a book launch for a Vatican-published, 11-volume set of books about Francis\' theology.Marking Francis\' fifth anniversary as pope, Vigano had held up Benedict\'s letter as a sign of the continuity between the two popes, to blunt critics who complain that Francis\' mercy-over-morals papacy represents a theological break from Benedict\'s doctrine-minded, theology-heavy papacy.Vigano didn\'t read the whole letter, and omitted the part where Benedict objected to one of the authors in the volume because he had been a longtime critic of Benedict and St. John Paul II. A press release sent out by Vigano\'s office only contained Benedict\'s words of praise for Francis and the book initiative, without mentioning that he hadn\'t even read the books and had no plans to.The AP reported that the photograph of the letter that accompanied the press release had digitally blurred out the lines where Benedict began to explain that he didn\'t have time to read the books and wouldn\'t comment on them, as requested by Vigano. The photo manipulation violated basic photojournalism ethical standards that forbid such distortion, especially when it misrepresents the content of the image.The scandal embarrassed the Vatican and led to accusations that the pope\'s own communications office was spreading "fake news," just weeks after Francis dedicated his annual media message to denouncing "fake news" and the intentional distortion of information. Francis has frequently chided journalists for only giving half of the story.In his resignation letter dated March 19, Vigano said he wanted to step aside so that his presence "wouldn\'t delay, damage or block" Francis\' reform of the Vatican\'s communications operations.He didn\'t acknowledge that he had misrepresented Benedict\'s letter or doctored the photo, saying only that he realized that his actions  despite his intentions  had created controversy and destabilized the communications reform.In his own letter accepting the resignation, Francis said he was removing Vigano reluctantly and praised him for his humility and willingness to work for the good of the church. He asked Vigano to stay on in the communications secretariat in the new position of "assessor," which in Vatican offices usually amounts to the No. 3 spot.The current No. 2, Monsignor Lucio Adrian Ruiz, will run the office until a new prefect is named.It is rare for the Vatican press office to release such an exchange of letters, suggesting that the pope wanted to make clear that he still has faith in Vigano to help oversee the consolidation of the Vatican\'s vast media operations.Francis named Vigano, an expert in film, to head the new Secretariat for Communications in 2015. The department was created to bring under one umbrella the Vatican\'s various media operations, to cut costs and improve efficiency. But Vigano\'s reforms and management style soured relations with many longtime employees.After the AP revealed the doctored photo and another Vatican commentator, Sandro Magister, hinted that there was even more in the letter that Vigano had concealed, the communications office released the full text of Benedict\'s letter, which had been sent to Vigano by the retired pope as "personal" and "reserved," suggesting that it was never meant to be made public.The previously concealed part of the letter provided the full explanation why Benedict had declined Vigano\'s request that he write a commentary on the books: In addition to saying he didn\'t have time, Benedict noted that one of the authors involved in the project, German theologian Peter Huenermann, had launched "virulent" and "anti-papist" attacks against papal teaching during Benedict\'s papacy. He wrote that he was surprised the Vatican had chosen the theologian to be included in the 11-volume "The Theology of Pope Francis."In the parts of Benedict\'s letter that Vigano read during the book launch and included in the press release, Benedict confirmed that Francis has a solid theological and philosophical training and he praised the book initiative for showing the "interior continuity" between the two papacies. He wrote it was "foolish prejudice" to paint Francis as only a practical man devoid of theology and Benedict as a mere academic who knew nothing of the lives of ordinary faithful.But Benedict\'s full caveat about his refusal to comment on the volume was never made public in Vigano\'s presentation, press release or accompanying photo. That omission left the impression that the 91-year-old retired pope had read the volume and fully endorsed it, when in fact he hadn\'t.As a result, Vigano\'s effort to show papal continuity effectively backfired. Benedict\'s harsh criticism of Huenermann laid bare the differences in theological approaches of the two popes, and showed the retired pope still bore something of a grudge.
WASHINGTON  Members of the Senate Intelligence Committee pressured Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, on Wednesday to speed up key election security measures, even as she trumpeted the adoption of important improvements ahead of Novembers midterm elections.Ms. Nielsen told the senators, who are investigating Russias interference in the 2016 election, that the department made significant strides in recent months working with state and local election officials to improve communication about threats and share cybersecurity resources. Those efforts include comprehensive risk assessments and cyberscans meant to identify vulnerabilities in election systems.But under questioning, Ms. Nielsen signaled that one of those undertakings, to grant full security clearances to state election officials so they could receive classified information on cybersecurity threats in a timely way, had been slow going. Of the up to 150 state election officials designated to receive clearances, only about 20 have them, she said.In the meantime, Ms. Nielsen said, the department would share necessary threat information with relevant state officials regardless of their clearance.Republicans and Democrats on the committee made clear that they expected more.When I listen to your testimony, I hear no sense of urgency to really get on top of this issue, said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.Wednesdays session was the secretive committees first public hearing designed to scrutinize findings from its year-old investigation into Russias interference campaign. It followed the committees release  on Tuesday of a set of recommendations for state and federal officials to shore up the ballot box.That effort appeared likely to get substantial resources on Wednesday, as congressional leaders completed a more than $1 trillion government funding bill that included hundreds of millions of dollars for election security. The bill, which is expected to pass later this week, includes $380 million for state grants to improve election infrastructure, as well as $307 million above what the Trump administration had requested for the F.B.I. that can be used to combat cyberattacks, election fraud and other crimes.Top federal officials have concluded that Russian hackers targeted election systems in 21 states and breached that of at least one, Illinois, during the last election cycle. No votes were changed, but the effort  alongside a concerted Russian disinformation and hacking campaign  exposed dangerous vulnerabilities in the voting systems and the governments ability to respond.American intelligence officials have warned that Russia considered its campaign to sow social and political divisions in 2016 a success, and is already meddling in the midterm elections. A central tool of the campaign  fake social media accounts to spread propaganda and disinformation  continues to be used unabated, the officials said.Ms. Nielsen echoed those concerns on Wednesday, making clear that with voting already underway in primary elections around the country, the threat was not over.We think the threat remains high. We think vigilance remains important. And we think there is a lot we need to do at all levels of government before the midterms, Ms. Nielsen said. Once these vulnerabilities have been made clear, its not just Russia we have to worry about.There are other challenges, Ms. Nielsen said. She noted that two states were not cooperating with the department to ensure that their systems were safe.Ms. Nielsen appeared alongside Jeh Johnson, who was President Barack Obamas homeland security secretary during the 2016 election. Mr. Johnson was asked several times why his department and other Obama administration officials had not done more to warn state election officials and the public about the threats in the run-up to the election.He repeatedly defended his decision-making, saying that some states had rebuffed federal outreach and that the department had been able to directly assist more than 30 others. Mr. Johnson also lamented that greater heed was not taken of an October 2016 statement he signed with the director of national intelligence alerting the public to the Russian intrusion into election systems.Frankly, it did not get the attention that I thought it should have received, he said, noting that the statement was issued the same day that the infamous Access Hollywood tape surfaced.Some senators went further.Senator Angus King, a Maine independent who caucuses with the Democrats, warned bluntly that the threat was not being treated with the urgency that it deserves and that a patchwork of defenses would mean little without a comprehensive cyberdeterrence strategy. Of the Russians targeting of state systems in 2016, he said, What it looks like is a test.This country has to wake up, he said, later telling Ms. Nielsen, I encourage you to go back with your hair on fire.The recommendations released by the committee on Tuesday  the first such disclosure in its investigation  covered much of what experts and intelligence officials have been urging election authorities to do for months.The panel also pressed the Trump administration to make it clear that any attack on an American election would be viewed as a hostile act.Those recommendations come from a fuller classified report on election security that the committee has prepared. The fuller document has to be submitted to the intelligence agencies for declassification before it can be released publicly, a process that could take weeks or months. The committees chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said on Wednesday that it would release an overview of its findings in the interim.The committee is expected to prepare similar reports in the coming months on other areas of investigation, including the Russians use of social media and whether the Trump campaign aided the meddling campaign.
LONDON   Chris Wylie can\'t prove the work he did for Cambridge Analytica helped Donald Trump win the 2016 presidential election, but he thinks he has pretty good evidence.While working for the political consulting company from 2013 to 2015, Wylie\'s team spoke to Americans in focus groups to identify deep-seated concerns. Then they tested ways to tap into those fears through social media. The slogans they developed later became the catchphrases of the Trump campaign, he says."My ears perked up when I started hearing some of these things like \'drain the swamp\' or \'build the wall\' or \'the deep state\' because these were all narratives that had come out from the research that we were doing," Wylie told an audience at London\'s Frontline Club on Tuesday night.The 28-year-old Canadian is at the center of allegations that Cambridge Analytica improperly used data from over 50 million Facebook users to identify voters who might be sympathetic to Trump\'s message and target them with social media messages. In stories by the New York Times and Britain\'s Guardian newspaper over the past week, he explained how he created the psychological warfare tools for Steve Bannon, the right-wing former banker who later became Trump\'s chief strategist.At the wide-ranging talk in London, Wylie described in further detail how the company worked and Bannon\'s central role in shaping it.Wylie says Facebook data collected by a Cambridge University researcher was used as part of a project commissioned by Cambridge Analytica. The firm says none of the Facebook data was used in the work it did for the Trump campaign. Facebook has suspended Wylie and Cambridge Analytica while it investigates the allegations.Wylie was in his early 20s and had been working on a PhD in fashion trend forecasting when he went to work for defense and intelligence contractor SCL Group, which later teamed with Bannon to create Cambridge Analytica. Alexander Nix, CEO of Cambridge Analytica, offered the "freedom to explore the research I really wanted to do," Wylie said.Bannon, unlike other clients, wasn\'t impressed by Nix\'s posh pedigree or fancy meals at exclusive London restaurants, so they closed the deal by setting up an office in Cambridge to align the new company with the history and prestige of Cambridge University."We presented ourselves as much more academic. Not to say that we weren\'t academic, but we needed to curate our presentation so we created this fake office ... beside the university to make it look like this is our Cambridge site. This is our Potemkin Cambridge office.\' "But the data was real, and Cambridge Analytica used that information, together with insights gained from focus groups with angry Americans, to identify issues and target voters. Bannon supplied the ideological focus of wanting to remake America and billionaire Robert Mercer provided the money. Neither Bannon nor Mercer has publicly commented since the allegations emerged.The work was a mix of old-fashioned canvassing and the use of millions of data points to test out slogans and push them onto social media."We would just go chat with people. We would go sit in their living rooms. We would look at how they live," said Wylie.He said Cambridge Analytica had an advantage in listening to Americans because as foreigners they may have had fewer preconceptions."One of the things that started to emerge was that we literally heard these sort of narratives about Washington as something that was, like, gross and disgusting, that was dirty," Wylie said.So his team tested the phrase "drain that swamp" to see if people would respond to it on social media. After all, they had access to the data of millions of Facebook users without their knowledge.And people responded. Through the internet and Trump\'s speeches, the slogan became one of the campaign\'s most identifiable soundbites.Perhaps it is the idea of building a wall along the Mexican border that best illustrates Wylie\'s work for Cambridge Analytica.Bannon, Wylie said, was obsessed with the idea of separating the U.S. from the rest of the world so the country can rediscover itself. Trump\'s campaign for a wall along the Mexican border is not really about stopping immigrants, Wylie said."It\'s to embody separation," he said. "If you can embody that separation and you can further distance in the minds of Americans us here in America and them elsewhere, even if it is just across a river, or just across a desert, then you have won that culture war."
BUJUMBURA, Burundi   Declared this month by supporters as Burundi\'s "eternal supreme guide," President Pierre Nkurunziza now wants changes to the constitution that would let him rule until 2034. The referendum in May could spark further deadly violence in the African nation that the U.N. human rights chief has called one of "the most prolific slaughterhouses of humans in recent times."Nkurunziza is just the latest African leader to seek the dismantling of term limits to stay in power. Critics call his latest move a bid to be president for life.In 2015 his decision to seek a disputed third term plunged the country into bloody protests that left an estimated 1,200 people dead, and International Criminal Court judges last year authorized an investigation into allegations of state-sponsored crimes including murder, rape and torture. More than 400,000 people have fled the country.Even before Nkurunziza over the weekend signed a decree setting May 17 for the referendum, opposition and human rights groups accused ruling party members of arresting activists campaigning against the proposed changes to the constitution. Those include extending the president\'s term from five years to seven, which means Nkurunziza could rule for another 14 years when his current term expires in 2020.In Muyinga province, two local chiefs appear in videos circulated on social media urging people to "crush and arrest opponents campaigning for \'no.\'"And this week, police rejected concerns over the death on Sunday of Simon Bizimana, who had been detained after appearing in a video on social media talking about his refusal to register for the referendum. Bizimana died of malaria at home and "he was never tortured," police said in a statement on Twitter.Most of the people targeted belong to the FNL opposition party, whose leader Agathon Rwasa is Burundi\'s most prominent opposition figure and the first vice president of the national assembly.Rwasa told The Associated Press that his supporters would stand their ground despite the intimidation."You cannot force somebody to change his mind if he is not ready to change it," he said.Rwasa said he was concerned Nkurunziza\'s party would instigate the publication of what he called fake referendum results. "I am sure this referendum will provoke a great divide in Burundians since many won\'t vote yes," he said.The referendum has galvanized the opposition and activists who again are demanding Nkurunziza\'s exit.Burundian rights group Ligue Iteka has condemned the referendum, saying it "stirs up tensions" and noting Nkurunziza\'s alleged threat in December that those who "oppose the constitution draft revision will suffer serious consequences."Vital Nshimirimana, the leader of a campaign by 23 civic groups against the proposed amendments, said the campaign\'s goal is to stop the destruction of the Arusha accords, which ended a 13-year civil war in which about 300,000 people were killed. The accords also created a system of checks and balances in government and has been cited for calming the ethnic violence that has plagued the country since independence.Nkurunziza rose to power in 2005 following the signing of the accords, then was re-elected unopposed in 2010 after the opposition boycotted the vote. He argued that he was eligible for a third term in 2015 because lawmakers, not the general population, had chosen him for his first term, while critics called the move unconstitutional.The May referendum "is a very dangerous project for the future of the country as much as the country is still in an unsolved conflict related to the third term of Pierre Nkurunziza," Nshimirimana said.More than 60 people have been arrested for allegedly campaigning against the referendum, he said, citing the arrests as a sign that the vote will not be free and fair.Burundian authorities have repeatedly denied allegations of serious rights abuses, saying they are the victim of propaganda by exiles opposed to the government. The authorities say the East African nation is safe for everyone.The country\'s first vice president, Gaston Sindimwo, has dismissed the strong criticism last month by the U.N. human rights chief as a fabrication.Many observers disagree.Michel Kafando, the U.N. special envoy to Burundi, told the U.N. Security Council last month that the political situation continues to be tense."Only the majority party and some other allied groups are able to conduct unobstructed political activities," he said. "Such a situation cannot be suitable for the organization of credible elections."___
WASHINGTON  Members of the Senate Intelligence Committee pressured Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, on Wednesday to speed up key election security measures, even as she trumpeted the adoption of important improvements ahead of Novembers midterm elections.Ms. Nielsen told the senators, who are investigating Russias interference in the 2016 election, that the department made significant strides in recent months working with state and local election officials to improve communication about threats and share cybersecurity resources. Those efforts include comprehensive risk assessments and cyberscans meant to identify vulnerabilities in election systems.But under questioning, Ms. Nielsen signaled that one of those undertakings, to grant full security clearances to state election officials so they could receive classified information on cybersecurity threats in a timely way, had been slow going. Of the up to 150 state election officials designated to receive clearances, only about 20 have them, she said.In the meantime, Ms. Nielsen said, the department would share necessary threat information with relevant state officials regardless of their clearance.Republicans and Democrats on the committee made clear that they expected more.When I listen to your testimony, I hear no sense of urgency to really get on top of this issue, said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.Wednesdays session was the secretive committees first public hearing designed to scrutinize findings from its year-old investigation into Russias interference campaign. It followed the committees release  on Tuesday of a set of recommendations for state and federal officials to shore up the ballot box.That effort appeared likely to get substantial resources on Wednesday, as congressional leaders completed a more than $1 trillion government funding bill that included hundreds of millions of dollars for election security. The bill, which is expected to pass later this week, includes $380 million for state grants to improve election infrastructure, as well as $307 million above what the Trump administration had requested for the F.B.I. that can be used to combat cyberattacks, election fraud and other crimes.Top federal officials have concluded that Russian hackers targeted election systems in 21 states and breached that of at least one, Illinois, during the last election cycle. No votes were changed, but the effort  alongside a concerted Russian disinformation and hacking campaign  exposed dangerous vulnerabilities in the voting systems and the governments ability to respond.American intelligence officials have warned that Russia considered its campaign to sow social and political divisions in 2016 a success, and is already meddling in the midterm elections. A central tool of the campaign  fake social media accounts to spread propaganda and disinformation  continues to be used unabated, the officials said.Ms. Nielsen echoed those concerns on Wednesday, making clear that with voting already underway in primary elections around the country, the threat was not over.We think the threat remains high. We think vigilance remains important. And we think there is a lot we need to do at all levels of government before the midterms, Ms. Nielsen said. Once these vulnerabilities have been made clear, its not just Russia we have to worry about.There are other challenges, Ms. Nielsen said. She noted that two states were not cooperating with the department to ensure that their systems were safe.Ms. Nielsen appeared alongside Jeh Johnson, who was President Barack Obamas homeland security secretary during the 2016 election. Mr. Johnson was asked several times why his department and other Obama administration officials had not done more to warn state election officials and the public about the threats in the run-up to the election.He repeatedly defended his decision-making, saying that some states had rebuffed federal outreach and that the department had been able to directly assist more than 30 others. Mr. Johnson also lamented that greater heed was not taken of an October 2016 statement he signed with the director of national intelligence alerting the public to the Russian intrusion into election systems.Frankly, it did not get the attention that I thought it should have received, he said, noting that the statement was issued the same day that the infamous Access Hollywood tape surfaced.Some senators went further.Senator Angus King, a Maine independent who caucuses with the Democrats, warned bluntly that the threat was not being treated with the urgency that it deserves and that a patchwork of defenses would mean little without a comprehensive cyberdeterrence strategy. Of the Russians targeting of state systems in 2016, he said, What it looks like is a test.This country has to wake up, he said, later telling Ms. Nielsen, I encourage you to go back with your hair on fire.The recommendations released by the committee on Tuesday  the first such disclosure in its investigation  covered much of what experts and intelligence officials have been urging election authorities to do for months.The panel also pressed the Trump administration to make it clear that any attack on an American election would be viewed as a hostile act.Those recommendations come from a fuller classified report on election security that the committee has prepared. The fuller document has to be submitted to the intelligence agencies for declassification before it can be released publicly, a process that could take weeks or months. The committees chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said on Wednesday that it would release an overview of its findings in the interim.The committee is expected to prepare similar reports in the coming months on other areas of investigation, including the Russians use of social media and whether the Trump campaign aided the meddling campaign.
NEW YORK   Facebook\'s latest privacy scandal, involving Trump campaign consultants who allegedly stole data on tens of millions of users in order to influence elections, has some people reconsidering their relationship status with the social network.There\'s just one problem: There isn\'t much of anywhere else to go.Facebook has weathered many such blow-ups before and is used to apologizing and moving on. But the stakes are bigger this time.Regulatory authorities are starting to focus on the data misappropriation, triggering a 9 percent decline in Facebook\'s normally high-flying stock since Monday. Some of that reflects fear that changes in Facebook\'s business will hurt profits or that advertisers and users will sour on the social network.The furor over Cambridge Analytica, the data mining firm accused of stealing Facebook data, follows a bad year in which Facebook acknowledged helping spread fake news and propaganda from Russian agents. It also comes less than three months after CEO Mark Zuckerberg told the world that he would devote the year to fixing Facebook. Instead, things seem to be getting worse."It\'s more serious economically, politically, financially and will require a more robust response in order to regain users\' trust," said Steve Jones, a professor of communications at the University of Illinois at Chicago.Yet leaving Facebook, like ending a long marriage, isn\'t remotely simple. Starting with the little things.Arvind Rajan, a tech executive from San Francisco who deactivated his account on Monday, suddenly discovered he needs to create new usernames and passwords for a variety of apps and websites. That\'s because he previously logged in with his Facebook ID.It\'s a pain, he said, "but not the end of the world." And because he is bothered by Facebook\'s "ham-handed" response to recent problems, the inconvenience is worth it.For other users looking to leave, it can feel as if there are no real alternatives. Twitter? Too flighty, too public. Instagram? Whoops, owned by Facebook. Snapchat? Please, unless you\'re under 25  in which case you\'re probably not on Facebook to begin with.Facebook connects 2.2 billion users and a host of communities that have sprung up on its network. No other company can match the breadth or depth of these connections  thanks in part to Facebook\'s proclivity for squashing or swallowing up its competition.But it is precisely in Facebook\'s interest to make users feel Facebook is the only place to connect with others. Where else will grandmothers see photos of their far-flung grandkids? How will new mothers connect to other parents also up at 4 a.m. with a newborn?"My only hesitation is that there are hundreds of pictures posted over 13 years of my life that I do not want to lose access to. If there was a way to recover these photos, I would deactivate immediately," Daniel Schwartz, who lives in Atlanta, said in an email.People eager to delete their profiles may find unexpected problems that point to how integral Facebook is to many activities, said Ifeoma Ajunwa, a professor of organizational behavior at Cornell University."It is getting more and more difficult for people to delete Facebook, since it\'s not just as a social media platform but also almost like a meeting square," she said.Parents could soon realize that their child\'s soccer schedule with games and pickup times is only on a Facebook page, for example. Many businesses also schedule meetings via Facebook."It\'s more and more difficult for people to feel plugged in if you\'re not on Facebook," Ajunwa said.There are no signs, so far, that users are leaving in droves  and advertisers go where the eyeballs are, so they aren\'t leaving either. Research firm eMarketer hasn\'t changed its estimate that worldwide ad spending on Facebook will climb 22 percent this year to nearly $49 billion.Still, if "Facebook were forced to change the way it uses data or the way its ad products work, then advertisers may become less enamored with it," said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst with the firm.Not surprisingly, Facebook doesn\'t make it easy to leave. To permanently delete your account, you need to make a request to the company. The process can take several days, and if you log in during this time, your request will be canceled. It can take up to 90 days to delete everything.There\'s a less permanent way to leave, deactivation, which hides your profile from everyone but lets you return if you change your mind.Lili Orozco, a 28-year-old office manager for her family\'s heating and cooling company in Watkinsville, Georgia, deleted her account in December. She was upset that every new app she downloaded would ask for her Facebook contacts.And while she liked staying in touch with people, she was irritated by the conspiracy stories her high school friends would share."Falsehoods spread faster on Facebook than the truth does," she said. She now gets her news from Twitter and shares pictures with friends through Instagram.___AP Technology Writer Mae Anderson in New York and Associated Press Writer Dee-Ann Durbin in Detroit contributed to this story.
SAN FRANCISCO   Most people who own a smartphone take it wherever they go, a fact of modern life that enabled authorities to hunt down the man suspected in four Texas bombings before he blew himself up Wednesday.The search for the suspect, identified as Mark Anthony Conditt, drew upon technology that connects mobile phones to cellular towers and transmits the device\'s location. It\'s similar to the same way that an app installed on your phone can know where you are and, in some cases, even learn more about your favorite places to shop, buy coffee or just hang out.But some of the methods law enforcement officials have used to track people\'s location through their phones have raised legal issues, even when the target is suspected of committing heinous crimes like Conditt is. That\'s because their location-tracking techniques cast a wide net that also can capture personal information about innocent bystanders.___GETTING THE CELL NUMBEROfficials in Texas said they were able to obtain Conditt\'s phone number. This breakthrough came after he was linked through a license plate number to a red truck spotted on surveillance video at a FedEx store where he is suspected to have dropped off a parcel bomb.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said the same phone number showed up at all four bomb sites. But he did not elaborate on how investigators obtained the information to reach that conclusion.In the most likely scenario, investigators may have asked telecommunication carriers for historical records of all traffic on certain cell towers on specific dates, said Mike Chapple, associate teaching professor of information technology, analytics and operations at the University of Notre Dame.A warrant usually accompanies requests, known as "tower dumps," but not always. The U.S. Supreme Court is currently reviewing a case involving the pulling of 127 days of cellphone information without a warrant to pinpoint the location of a robbery suspect. The question being debated is whether the investigation violated the Fourth Amendment against unreasonable searches.___TRACKING THE PHONE NUMBEROnce investigators had Conditt\'s phone number, they most likely contacted his carrier to track where the device\'s signal was connecting to towers.But the authorities also may have tried to get an even more precise location by using "cell-site simulators" that act as fake towers. These simulators, also known as "StingRays," broadcast radio signals stronger than legitimate cell towers to force all phones within a targeted area to connect to them.Some simulators can fit in the trunk of a police car that can cruise around a neighborhood in an effort to find a certain phone. But in the process they can also scoop up the locations of other phones, as well as personal data stored on them, said Stephanie Lacambra, a criminal defense staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group."All bystanders in a certain radius can have their information hoovered up without their consent with some of these investigative techniques," Lacambra said.___AP writer Paul J. Weber in Austin, Texas, contributed to this story.
LONDON   British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica lies at the center of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 U.S. presidential election campaign.However, the analytics firm is also under scrutiny over campaigning for the 2016 referendum when Britons voted to leave the European Union.Cambridge Analytica and the leaders of the Leave.EU group have previously boasted about working together during the Brexit campaign. However, they have since retracted their claims, saying no contract was signed and no work was completed.Parliament is investigating the links between Cambridge Analytica and Leave.EU as part of an investigation into fake news.Did Cambridge Analytica and Leave.EU work together?Arron Banks, the co-founder of Leave.EU, said in a book that in October 2015 his group hired Cambridge Analytica, a company that uses "big data and advanced psychographics" to influence people. In a November 2015, Leave.EU said on its website that Cambridge Analytica "will be helping us map the British electorate and what they believe in, enabling us to better engage with voters".In the same month, Cambridge Analytica director Brittany Kaiser spoke at a Leave.EU news conference. She said her organization would be "running large-scale research of the nation to really understand why people are interested in staying in or out of the EU".In February 2016, Cambridge Analytica chief executive  Alexander Nix wrote in Campaign magazine that his company was working for Leave.EU. "We have already helped supercharge Leave.EU\'s social media campaign by ensuring the right messages are getting to the right voters online," said Nix, who was suspended by the company this week.Leave.EU\'s communications director Andy Wigmore also said on Twitter last year that his campaign group had used the company. "You should use Cambridge Analytics," he said, adding that he could "highly recommend them".What does Leave.EU say now?Banks says Cambridge Analytica sought work with the Leave.EU before the referendum but that ultimately it never did any - paid or otherwise - for the campaign."We did have dealings with Cambridge Analytica  they put forward a pitch that went into the designation document submitted to the electoral commission," Banks told Reuters.No work was done with Cambridge Analytica because Leave.EU did not win the designation as the official leave campaign and due to concerns about the consultancy, Banks said.When asked if Leave.EU paid or accepted any services from Cambridge Analytica, Banks said: "No benefit in kind, no data, no nothing."Banks told a parliamentary committee earlier this month that when he referred to Cambridge Analytica being "hired" in his book this was a reference to the intention to work them.What does Cambridge Analytica say now?Nix told a parliamentary committee last month that he contacted Banks and Wigmore and their statements were not true.The article written in the Campaign magazine was a mistake and "drafted by a slightly overzealous PR consultant", he said.This "referenced work that we hoped and intended to undertake for the campaign. Subsequently, work was never undertaken. The moment that that statement went out we were absolutely crystal clear to all the media outlets that we were not involved and that it had been released in error," he said.(Reporting by Andrew MacAskill; editing by David Stamp)
AMMAN, Jordan   A German shepherd sniffed suitcases in an airport inspection drill, excitedly pausing near one bag from which a handler then pulled a satchel with plastic explosives.The exercise at the compound of the Jordanian police canine unit, staged for visitors this week, is part of the U.S. State Department\'s expanding Anti-Terrorism Assistance (ATA) program.The program has allocated $300 million this year to train and equip domestic security forces in partner nations  so far 21 out of a pool of 56. The aim is to improve the safety of U.S. diplomats and citizens abroad and to support U.S. allies.In Jordan, a key U.S. ally in a tumultuous region, this includes training more explosives-sniffing dogs for airport duty, focusing on the departure gates of U.S. bound flights, and setting up cyber security training for local law enforcement agencies.In recent years, Jordan has upgraded its fight against militants and criminals, in large part with U.S. backing, setting up a national emergency call center, a network of street surveillance cameras and databases for DNA, ballistics and fingerprints.Paul Davies, the ATA program director, said training has paid off."I know that the teams we\'ve trained, whether it\'s a canine team or a crisis response team for the Public Security Directorate ... have all discovered and disrupted terrorist plots, weapons and explosives that may have been attempted to be smuggled over the border," he said in an interview late Tuesday in Jordan\'s capital, Amman.Jordan\'s importance to Washington was apparent last month when the kingdom was promised $1.275 billion a year in U.S. economic and military aid through 2022, an increase of 27 percent  even though President Donald Trump had threatened to punish countries that don\'t agree with U.S. policy in the Middle East. In December, Jordan had voted at the United Nations to condemn the U.S. for recognizing Jerusalem as Israel\'s capital.Davies said decisions on foreign aid are made elsewhere in the State Department, but that in his eight months on the job, he has seen an increase in counter-terrorism funding.Jordan faces domestic and external threats from extremists, even though once powerful Islamic State militants have largely been defeated in neighboring Syria and Iraq.Jordan\'s economic woes, including high unemployment, have created fertile ground for militant recruiting. The government has arrested large numbers of suspected militant sympathizers, but critics say this fails to address underlying causes of lack of economic opportunity and a closed political system.The Associated Press was given rare access this week to Jordanian law enforcement centers, such as the forensics lab and the call center.  Retired U.S. law enforcement officers mentoring Jordanian counterparts said the local facilities are largely on par with those in the U.S.The call center is housed in a massive castle-like building on the outskirts of Amman.In a large hall, phones were ringing non-stop as call-takers responded to complaints and emergencies, with an average of 30,000 calls coming in every day.One man said a car was blocking an exit at an Amman hospital. He gave the license plate number, and the dispatcher sent a patrol car. One line is set aside for calls by foreign embassies, which are given priority, said Brig. Eng. Rami al-Dabbas, the director of the center.Live footage from street surveillance cameras streamed on screens mounted on a back wall.Al-Dabbas said 720 cameras currently cover Amman and key locations elsewhere, including tourism sites, but that he needs another 3,000 to cover the entire capital.Eventually, close to 11,000 cameras are to cover the kingdom, he said, adding that lack of funding is holding up such plans.In one room, dispatchers were randomly checking car license plates shown on the security cameras against a database of wanted vehicles. Fifteen drones will be used for surveillance, including of illegal hunters, with six already in operation, al-Dabbas said.Security analyst Amer Sabaileh said he didn\'t expect public pushback to mounting surveillance. Crime is on the rise and most Jordanians feel security trumps privacy, he said.Al-Dabbas said his center is one of the most advanced in the region, though several other countries, including the United Arab Emirates, have also developed sophisticated street surveillance.In the UAE, surveillance footage helped authorities identify the woman who stabbed an American school teacher to death at an Abu Dhabi mall in 2014. It also aided Dubai police in identifying members of what it described as an Israeli hit squad that killed an operative with the Palestinian militant Hamas group in 2010.Jordan\'s crime lab, meanwhile, is expanding its databases. It has about 1.5 million sets of fingerprints, or of almost one-fourth of Jordan\'s citizens, along with 150,000 DNA samples of criminal suspects and thousands of ballistics samples that help solve dozens of cold cases each month.Lt. Col. Mohammed al-Dajeh, head of training in the criminal investigations department of Jordan\'s police, said he has seen an overlap between criminal and terrorist networks. Terrorists looking for funding often engage in crime, and some of the militants have a criminal past, he said.At the canine unit on the outskirts of Amman, German shepherds demonstrated their detection skills. The dogs sniffed out explosives hidden in the fuel tank of a car, under a fake rock along a sidewalk and in a suitcase.In coming months, five more teams will be trained for special airport duty, sniffing laptops and mobile phones of passengers about to board direct flights from Jordan to New York, Chicago and Detroit, said Lt. Col. Ali al-Khaldi of the canine unit.The dogs won\'t touch the electronics directly, in deference to local cultural and religious sensitivities, he said, adding that police will seek a religious ruling from a top Muslim cleric on how to deal with police dogs.Airports in Egypt and Morocco will also get more sniffer dogs.
WASHINGTON  President Trump defended on Wednesday his decision to disregard the advice of his national security team and congratulate President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on his re-election, lashing out at the news media for reporting on how he diverged from his script and attacking his predecessors for failing to improve relations with Moscow.Mr. Trump, enraged after officials leaked the contents of confidential notes he was given for the private phone call on Tuesday that exhorted him DO NOT CONGRATULATE Mr. Putin, argued in a pair of tweets on Wednesday afternoon that the conversation was part of his effort to foster better relations with Russia. He said such engagement could help the United States confront a host of national security challenges.I called President Putin of Russia to congratulate him on his election victory (in past, Obama called him also), Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, referring to President Barack Obamas call to Mr. Putin in 2012. The Fake News Media is crazed because they wanted me to excoriate him. They are wrong!But Mr. Trumps handling of the call and his defense of it also pointed up his aversion to confronting Mr. Putin about Moscows misdeeds, which has become a theme of his presidency even as a special counsel investigates Russias efforts to sway the 2016 election in his favor.Mr. Trumps own advisers had warned him against congratulating Mr. Putin and, in briefing cards prepared before the call, told him to raise Moscows role in a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter living in Britain, an instruction he also ignored. The Washington Post first reported on the briefing cards, a leak that stunned some senior officials at the White House, where aides said on Wednesday that John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, had been deeply disappointed and frustrated by the disclosure.One senior White House official said Mr. Trump had never seen the briefing cards. Another said the president had been determined not to antagonize Mr. Putin, believing that his rapport with the Russian leader was the key to better relations between the countries.It was that rationale that Mr. Trump appeared to embrace on Wednesday.Getting along with Russia (and others) is a good thing, not a bad thing, the president wrote. They can help solve problems with North Korea, Syria, Ukraine, ISIS, Iran and even the coming Arms Race.The president also took on his predecessors, both Republican and Democrat, saying they had been incapable of forging better relations with Moscow.Bush tried to get along, but didnt have the smarts, Mr. Trump wrote. Obama and Clinton tried, but didnt have the energy or chemistry (remember RESET).He was referring to the policy of Hillary Clinton, his 2016 campaign rival, who as secretary of state in Mr. Obamas administration pursued a reset with Russia aimed at turning around a dysfunctional relationship.The call revived questions about Mr. Trumps stance toward Mr. Putin just after his administration had taken its most aggressive steps against Moscow, moving last week to impose sanctions for Russias interference in the election and other malicious cyberattacks.The United States also joined Britain, France and Germany in denouncing the Russian government for violating international law for the attack on the spy, Sergei V. Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia.Still, since his first face-to-face meeting with Mr. Putin over the summer, Mr. Trump has consistently refused to criticize the Russian president directly. In November, after a meeting with Mr. Putin on the sideline of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Danang, Vietnam, Mr. Trump said the Russian president means it when he denied having meddled in the 2016 election, and was very insulted by the charge, which is the conclusion of American intelligence agencies.Mr. Trump began his day on Wednesday indirectly criticizing Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for the Russia investigation, continuing to attack him by name against the advice of his own lawyers.I was opposed to the selection of Mueller to be Special Council, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter in quotes he attributed to Alan M. Dershowitz, a professor emeritus at Harvard Law School. I think President Trump was right when he said there never should have been a Special Council appointed because there was no probable cause for believing that there was any crime, collusion or otherwise, or obstruction of justice!It was not immediately clear on Wednesday which remarks of Mr. Dershowitzs the president was quoting. An interview with Mr. Dershowitz on Fox News on Tuesday and an opinion piece by Mr. Dershowitz published on Wednesday did not include the exact phrasing that Mr. Trump used in his tweets. And the language was not found in a search of Mr. Dershowitzs cable news appearances over the past week.
Debates over privacy have plagued Facebook for years.But the news that  Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm that worked on President Trumps 2016 campaign, was able to gain access to private data through the social network has sparked an unusually strong reaction among its users.The hashtag #DeleteFacebook appeared more than 10,000 times on Twitter within a two-hour period on Wednesday, according to the analytics service ExportTweet. On Tuesday, it was mentioned 40,398 times, according to the analytics service Digimind.Cher was one such deserter, writing on Twitter that the decision to quit Facebook, although very hard, was necessary because she loves the United States.Brian Acton, a co-founder of the WhatsApp messaging service, told his tens of thousands of followers on Tuesday to delete Facebook. The social network acquired WhatsApp in a $19 billion deal in 2014.For people who arent celebrities or billionaires, the decision to abandon Facebook came reluctantly, because the platform often served as their sole connection to certain relatives, friends and professional opportunities.Here, some newly Facebook-free users of social media discuss why they left.______Richard H. PerryA filmmaker in Los AngelesFor a long time now, Mr. Perry had wanted to leave Facebook.He never felt comfortable knowing that the company had access to much of his personal information. In the months before the 2016 presidential election, he watched the social network become what he called a garbage platform of ads and weird reposted articles and people that you care about exposing themselves as racists.But Facebook was also where Mr. Perry promoted his films, where he posted ads seeking help on the set, and where he communicated with colleagues and a massive number of his friends and relatives.Until he heard about Cambridge Analytica.I suspected this stuff was going on, but this is the first time its been plainly exposed, he said. It seems so malicious, and Facebook seems so complicit all the way up and down, like it doesnt care about its users.Mr. Perry, 39, has since deleted his profile and plans to switch to Twitter and Instagram for his social media needs.It was an easy decision, he said. Its not going to be the end of the world.______Dan ClarkA retired Navy veteran in MaineMr. Clark kept one Facebook account to chat with friends and a separate account to keep tabs on members of his family nationwide. This week, he deleted both.Facebook was the main platform I used to keep in touch with all of them, and it was a difficult decision to give it up, he said. But you have to stand for something, so I just put my foot down and said enough is enough.Mr. Clark, 57, said he had already been angry with Facebook for censoring some of his posts, which he said expressed his staunchly conservative views but were never evil or putting anybody down. He could not abide the idea that his personal information was also being sold or given away without his consent.Before cutting the cord, Mr. Clark posted on Facebook inviting his contacts to ask him for his personal phone number. More than 100 people reached out within three days.There are just so many ways nowadays to stay in contact: phones, email, instant message, Gab, which is a social network that doesnt censor anything, he said. Facebook is more obsolete than people would think.______Alexandra KleemanA writer on Staten IslandHer first experience with fake news  a Facebook post claiming that Pope Francis had endorsed Mr. Trumps candidacy  altered the way Ms. Kleeman looked at Facebook.It changed the psychological and emotional feel of the platform for me, she said. I dont have a great feeling when I log in.The Cambridge Analytica scandal led her to remove the Facebook app from her phone. Im not going to give them my engagement clicks, Ms. Kleeman, 32, said. But she is keeping the messaging function open for professional purposes and will continue using Instagram.She doesnt mind the idea that some personal data can be made public  she used to have a blog, she said.But the idea that my data could be used for purposes that I expressly dont want, that freaks me out.______Paul MusgraveAn assistant professor in Amherst, Mass.Twitter makes Mr. Musgrave feel depressed about the world, but Facebook is the social media platform he is trying to abandon.As a political science teacher at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, Mr. Musgrave, 36, feels a professional responsibility to keep abreast of the news and academic chatter hurtling at him in the form of tweets.Facebook was more valuable to him as a low-key, offstage networking tool, a replacement for end-of-year family newsletters that allowed him to passively keep up with people, he said. He joined the platform more than a decade ago and before that had been a member of Friendster, a precursor to Facebook.But in 2016, while helping his mother during her campaign for a government position in Indiana, Mr. Musgrave discovered a poisonous swamp of content on the site. The Cambridge Analytica findings were even more disturbing, he said."This is a company that has Orwellian levels of data about us, truly Big Brother-level, but its behaving as if it has no social responsibility and is a purely neutral medium of communication, he said. "Thats whats really been scary.Having deactivated his Facebook account, with plans to delete it, he now worries about connecting with people who use the social network as their main conduit of communication.Im definitely pruning myself away from some of those really important branches, he said. I watch my own students try to navigate the world of apps and smartphones, and even they dont really know how the internet works outside these enclosed garden spaces.______Ben GreenzweigAn entrepreneur in Westchester, N.Y.Once Mr. Greenzweig confirms that the 1,195 photos and 85 videos in his Facebook profile have downloaded, he plans to delete the account he has maintained for nearly a decade.Mr. Greenzweig, 40, said the Cambridge Analytica news was the last straw.We have surpassed the tipping point, where the benefit now fails to outweigh the cost, he said. But I will definitely miss what the promise of Facebook used to be  a way to connect to community in a very global and local context.A year ago, Mr. Greenzweig was an extraordinarily active Facebook user who juggled conversations with friends, managed several groups, took out ads for his business and maintained professional contacts.But on Tuesday night, in his final post, he asked his network to connect with him through email, LinkedIn, Twitter or phone.See everyone in the real world, he wrote.

