MEXICO CITY   A Mexican marine and four suspected gunmen were killed during a coordinated series of ambushes against marine patrols in a northern Mexico border city, authorities reported Sunday.The attacks late Saturday and early Sunday left a total of 12 marines wounded.Authorities said marines were ambushed three separate times in Nuevo Laredo, a city across the border from Laredo, Texas.Marines returned fire and killed one gunman in the first attack, but suffered three wounded.Another patrol was sent to help the wounded when it also came under fire; that ambush killed one marine and wounded several others.A third patrol was ambushed just outside the marine base as it responded to the first two attacks. In that shootout, three gunmen were killed.Mexico's navy said in a statement that the gunmen had fake Marine uniforms and Marine markings on their vehicles.Nuevo Laredo is dominated by the Northeast Cartel, an offshoot of the Zetas cartel.
CAIRO   Egypt said on Sunday it had deported a British journalist working for the Times newspaper last month because she was working illegally.The Times said on Saturday its correspondent, 33-year-old Bel Trew, who had been based in Cairo for several years, was arrested while reporting on a migrant boat that had vanished two years ago, and forced to leave Egypt with no access to a lawyer.The newspaper described an "increasingly oppressive environment" for media in Egypt ahead of a presidential election starting on Monday.Egypt\'s State Information Service, which oversees the accreditation of foreign journalists, said in a statement Trew had been expelled partly because she had not applied for a temporary press card, saying this was a "violation".Trew had, however, applied for an annual card, which is required for foreign journalists to work in the country, SIS said.Annual cards for all foreign journalists had been delayed this year due to "technical circumstances", it added.Trew had successfully applied for an annual card for the last five years, SIS said, and criticized her reporting throughout that time as containing "erroneous information".The Times did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Trew went to a Cairo district in February "to practise journalistic work without permission" and "as a result of these two flagrant violations, the Egyptian relevant authorities took its decision to deport the British journalist," SIS said.SIS criticized foreign media for reporting on Trew\'s expulsion without seeking government comment.Egypt\'s public prosecutor told state prosecutors last month to take legal action against media outlets found to be publishing false news, statements and rumors following strong official criticism of some foreign media coverage in Egypt.President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said this month any insult by a media organization of the army or police is defamation of the country and treason, rather than freedom of opinion.Reuters sought comment on Saturday from SIS, the interior ministry, and Sisi\'s office before reporting Trew\'s deportation but calls and WhatsApp messages were not answered after several hours.Trew said in an article in The Times she was detained by police in central Cairo after conducting an interview with "a man whose nephew, a teenage migrant, had probably drowned at sea trying to get to Italy" and held for hours then was "marched onto a plane" at Cairo airport bound for London.Rights groups say authorities have cracked down on press freedom in the run-up to the March 26-28 presidential election.Egyptian authorities have urged legal action against media outlets they deem to be publishing "fake news", and rights activists say several local journalists have also been arrested in recent months.Egypt says its election will be free and fair and that clamping down on what it deems fake news is necessary for stability.(Editing by David Evans)
DUBAI   Sayed Ahmed AlWadaei, a prominent Bahraini rights campaigner exiled in Britain, said on Saturday a Bahraini court had sentenced his wife to two months in jail in absentia this week and that his mother-in-law had begun a hunger strike in jail.AlWadaei, director of the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy (BIRD) and one of the most outspoken critics of the Gulf island kingdom, alleges the government\'s treatment of his family was aimed at silencing his activism."Their escalation against both of my family members was no coincidence," AlWadaei, who has lived in exile since 2012, told Reuters. Asked if Bahraini authorities were trying to muzzle him, he replied,  "Of course. My wife was beaten, mistreated and threatened that they are going after our family to punish me. Now all their threats were executed."Bahraini authorities did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comment.A close U.S. and British ally, Sunni Muslim-ruled Bahrain has cracked down on the opposition, hailing mostly from the Shi\'ite Muslim majority, since it crushed pro-democracy demonstrations they led in 2011.Rights groups have accused authorities of seeking to stamp out dissent. The government says the opposition is linked to militants backed by their arch-enemy Iran who have carried out years of deadly bombing and shooting attacks on security forces.AlWadaei\'s wife Duaa was detained and interrogated as she and their son departed Bahrain\'s airport after a visit in 2016.When she complained that she was physically abused during questioning about his activities and movements - charges authorities have denied - she was charged with insulting state institutions and sentenced in absentia to two months in jail on Wednesday, AlWadaei said.U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert criticized Duaa AlWadaei\'s sentence and urged the kingdom, where the U.S. bases its Fifth Fleet, not to prosecute free speech."We saw the report that a Bahraini criminal court sentenced her in absentia to ... two months in prison for allegedly insulting a state institution. Really?""We strongly urge the government to abide by its international obligations and commitments to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that includes the freedom of expression."AlWadaei also said his mother-in-law Hajer Mansoor Hassan began a hunger strike on Tuesday to protest against alleged restrictions to her privacy and monitoring of phone calls, and was moved to an Interior Ministry hospital two days later.She was sentenced to three years in jail in October for planting a "fake bomb" meant to taunt police. She denied the charges.Bahrain\'s National Institution for Human Rights (NIHR), a state body, said on Twitter that the Interior Ministry had described Mansoor\'s health as "normal and stable.""(We have) not received any complaints or requests for help from Ms. Hajer Mansoor Ali or her representative to date," the NIHR tweeted.Another female activist at the same prison, Medina Ali, also began a hunger strike to protest against a strip search and in solidarity with Hassan, BIRD reported.(Reporting by Noah Browning, Additional Reporting by Sarah Dadouch; Editing by Ghaida Ghantous and Mark Heinrich)
President Trump has decided not to hire two lawyers who were announced last week as new additions to his legal team, leaving him with a shrinking stable of lawyers as the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, enters an intense phase.The president is disappointed that conflicts prevent Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing from joining the presidents special counsel legal team, Mr. Trumps personal lawyer, Jay Sekulow, said in a statement on Sunday morning. However, those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the president in other legal matters. The president looks forward to working with them.The upheaval on the legal team comes at a critical time for Mr. Trump. The presidents former lead lawyer, John Dowd, quit the team on Thursday, just as Mr. Trump is deciding whether to sit with Mr. Mueller for an interview. At the moment, Mr. Sekulow is the presidents chief outside lawyer, as Mr. Trumps longtime New York lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, remains on the periphery.While Mr. Trumps lawyers, including Mr. Dowd, had told the president that the investigation would be over by this point, it seems to be accelerating, as Mr. Mueller appears to be looking into a wide range of matters related to Mr. Trumps corporate activities, his 2016 campaign, his associates and his time in office.The president met with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing, who are married, in recent days to discuss the possibility that they would join his legal team in the Mueller case. According to two people told of details about the meeting, the president did not believe he had personal chemistry with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.But beyond that, Ms. Toensing is representing Mark Corallo, who was the spokesman for Mr. Trumps legal team in 2017 before they parted ways.Mr. Corallo has told investigators that he was concerned that a close aide to Mr. Trump, Hope Hicks, may have been planning to obstruct justice during the drafting of a statement about a meeting between a Russian lawyer and Donald Trump Jr. during the campaign.Ms. Hickss lawyer has strongly denied that suggestion, and White House aides said Mr. Corallos assertion had come up in discussions with the president as he weighed whether to go ahead with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.Mr. diGenova had been expected to serve as an outspoken voice for the president as Mr. Trump has increased his attacks on Mr. Mueller. Mr. diGenova has endorsed the notion that a secretive group of F.B.I. agents concocted the Russia investigation as a way to keep Mr. Trump from becoming president, a theory with little supporting evidence.There was a brazen plot to illegally exonerate Hillary Clinton and, if she didnt win the election, to then frame Donald Trump with a falsely created crime, he had told Fox News in January.Earlier on Sunday, Mr. Trump took to Twitter from his Florida resort to insist that he faced no problems finding lawyers to represent him in the Russia investigation.Fame & fortune will never be turned down by a lawyer, though some are conflicted, Mr. Trump said in a tweet.The president insisted that many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case, and that reports of flux on his team were a Fake News narrative. Adding new lawyers, he said, would be costly because they would take months to get up to speed (if for no other reason than they can bill more).I am very happy with my existing team, he added.The news about the canceled legal appointments came as White House officials were girding themselves for an interview on Sunday evening on the CBS program 60 Minutes with the porn star known as Stormy Daniels.Ms. Daniels claims to have had a sexual relationship with Mr. Trump, and she signed a nondisclosure agreement with one of his lawyers, Michael D. Cohen, during the 2016 campaign.Mr. Trump and his wife, Melania, will be far apart by the time the interview airs. The White House announced that the first lady would stay behind in Florida when the president returned to Washington on Sunday afternoon. A spokeswoman, Lindsay Walters, said it was their tradition for spring break.On Sunday, one of Mr. Trumps closest friends, Christopher Ruddy, said the president was perplexed by reports of turmoil in his administration. Speaking on the ABC program This Week, Mr. Ruddy, who is the chief executive of Newsmax Media, said he expected the chief of staff, John F. Kelly, to stay in his job, despite the presidents chafing at what he sees as the restrictions Mr. Kelly has placed on him.But Mr. Ruddy, citing sources other than the president, said he expected the secretary of veterans affairs, David Shulkin, to leave the cabinet soon. Dr. Shulkins departure has been widely expected. And Mr. Ruddy played down reports that Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban development, was in trouble, despite Mr. Trumps private criticism of Mr. Carson to advisers after revelations of excessive spending on an office dining room set.Ashleigh F. Barry, a spokeswoman for Dr. Shulkin, said on Sunday that there were no personnel changes at the department to announce.President Trump has made clear that he expects the departments sole focus to be on providing quality care to Americas veterans, who have sacrificed to keep this country free and safe, she said.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump will not hire two lawyers to his legal team handling the special counsel\'s probe despite announcing their addition last week, Trump\'s personal lawyer said on Sunday, adding to uncertainty about the president\'s legal representation in the Russia investigation."The president is disappointed that conflicts prevent Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing from joining the president\'s special counsel legal team," Jay Sekulow said in a statement. "However, those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the president in other legal matters. The president looks forward to working with them.\'The announcement came nearly a week after Sekulow said diGenova would join the legal team handling Special Counsel Robert Mueller\'s investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in the 2016 presidential election.The quick reversal is likely to add to the perception that Trump\'s legal representation is in disarray as his lawyers have been negotiating the terms of a possible interview with the president.Trump\'s lead lawyer in the special counsel investigation, John Dowd, resigned Thursday."Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case...dont believe the Fake News narrative that it is hard to find a lawyer who wants to take this on," Trump tweeted on Sunday.Trump has denounced the investigation as a "witch hunt." Russia denies meddling in the election.DiGenova has appeared on Fox News accusing the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Justice Department of trying to frame Trump with false charges of colluding with Russia during the campaign.Trump wanted to hire diGenova after seeing him on television, but the conflicts were obvious, said a person familiar with the matter, who added that it was surprising that consideration for adding diGenova to Trump\'s team had gotten so far."We thank the president for his confidence in us and we look forward to working with him, on other matters, Toensing said in a statement on behalf of both her and diGenova. The married pair work together at their namesake law firm.Toensing declined to comment on what specific conflicts may have led to the work on the Russia legal team falling through.DiGenova & Toensing has represented Mark Corallo, a former spokesman for Trump\'s legal team, and Sam Clovis, a former campaign aide.Corallo was the spokesman for Trump\'s outside lawyers until last summer, when he resigned during another legal team shake-up.Since then, Corallo has spoken with Mueller about what he viewed as a false statement dictated by Trump from Air Force One about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York City that included several Russians, according to a person familiar with the matter. That meeting was attended by Trump\'s son, Donald Jr.Clovis, a former Pentagon official, was a campaign supervisor who wrote "great work" in an email after Trump\'s  foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos discussed efforts to broker a meeting between the campaign and Russian leaders.Corallo told Reuters on Friday that he had signed a waiver of potential conflicts last week.Clovis could not be reached for comment, but a person familiar with the matter said appropriate waivers had been signed.DiGenova was at the White House on Thursday, according to a person familiar with the meeting.Trump has had trouble finding outside lawyers to assist him in the Russia probe.Major firms such as Williams & Connolly and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher turned him down in the last year, citing conflicts, people familiar with the matter have told Reuters.Trump representatives have reached out to some of those firms again more recently, sources said.(Reporting by Karen Freifeld in New York; Writing by Dustin Volz; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
