Global tech giants including Facebook and Twitter on Thursday expressed concern about a possible Singapore plan to bring in a new law to tackle the threat of fake news, saying sufficient rules are already in place.
Think first before you retweet that bit of fake news.
CNN chief Jeff Zucker sharply attacked the network's rivals at Fox News Channel on Thursday, saying that it has become a propaganda machine that is "doing an incredible disservice to the country."
Federal prosecutors in Latin America's biggest country announced Thursday that they are investigating to determine if Cambridge Analytica illegally used the profiles of millions of Brazilian Facebook users.
British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica lies at the center of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 U.S. presidential election campaign. 
British consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica lies at the centre of a storm for using data obtained from millions of Facebook users without their permission after it was hired by Donald Trump for his 2016 U.S. presidential election campaign. 
Rachel Lee Hovnanian’s immersion room replicates a quiet forest. Can it cure New Yorkers’ nature-deficit disorder?
Most people who own a smartphone take it wherever they go, a fact of modern life that enabled authorities to hunt down the man suspected in five Texas bombings before he blew himself up Wednesday.
The dysfunctional ’90s band is reuniting for a tour and new music. In his first interview about the reboot, Billy Corgan addresses his reputation head-on.
The Latest on reports that millions of Facebook users' data was used to target political ads (all times local):
Elementary school students practice reading the news — and then research, interview, take notes, write and publish their own news stories.
The dysfunctional ’90s band is reuniting for a tour and new music. In his first interview about the reboot, Billy Corgan addresses his reputation head-on.
Tips for how to undermine democracy.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
