ABOARD USS WASP, Philippine Sea   The U.S. military on Friday launched vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) F-35Bs from the deck of the USS Wasp amphibious carrier in the waters around Okinawa in its first show of stealth aircraft force at sea.The exercise comes at a time when concerns remain high over North Korea\'s nuclear program, although regional tension has eased in recent weeks, coinciding with the North\'s participation in the Winter Olympics held in South Korea last month."This is a historic deployment. For the first time we take a marine stealth fighter F-35B. We pair it with a navy amphibious ship," Rear Admiral Brad Cooper, commander of the U.S. Navy\'s Expeditionary Strike Group 7, told reporters."And together this represents what I believe is the most significant leap in war fighting capability of our lifetime ... It gives us more ability to underscore peace, security and stability in this region."During the training, an F-35B fighter took off after running just 100 meters (109 yards) or so on the deck, and when it came back with its jet engine roaring, the aircraft hovered over the ship once, and then began its slow, vertical descent.It is capable of a vertical, as well as short takeoff.In November, the United States deployed 16 F-35Bs to its Marine Corps base in Iwakuni, western Japan. The refurbished Wasp moved to its base in Sasebo on Japan\'s major southwestern  island of Kyushu in January to replace the amphibious carrier that was deployed there.SIGNIFICANT UPGRADEWhile the U.S. Air Force version of the F-35 is already flying from bases in Japan, the addition of the F-35B to replace aging Harrier jump jets marks a significant upgrade to U.S. marine force capability around the East China Sea, where China is also bolstering its military.China already has one operational aircraft carrier, the second-hand Soviet-era Liaoning bought from Ukraine in 1998, and is carrying out tests on its first indigenously built carrier, launched last year and expected to enter service in 2020.Beijing is also modernizing its military with stealth aircraft and other new equipment, and plans to spend 1.11 trillion yuan ($176 billion) on its armed forces in 2018, more than three times as much as Japan and around a third of what the United States spends.Japan may also buy the F-35B, which it could fly from its two Izumo-class helicopters carriers with small improvements to the ships such as strengthening their decks against the 450 degree Celsius (842F) heat blast from the F-35B\'s engine."Changes to the Izumo could be completed within three months," said a retired senior commander of Japan\'s Maritime Self Defense Force (MSDF). He asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the topic.Japan, which has already ordered 42 F-35As, could also operate F-35Bs from islands along the Okinawa chain that skirts the edge of the East China Sea that don\'t have runways."Using its stealth capabilities the F-35 could fly deep into North Korea or China to target mobile air defense batteries or ballistic missile launchers," said Bonji Ohara, senior fellow at Sasakawa Peace Foundation, a think-tank. Ohara also is a former MSDF captain.(Reporting by Nobuhiro Kubo; writing by Tim Kelly, Kiyoshi Takenaka; Editing by Gareth Jones)
SEOUL   Once rejected by North Korea as "human scum," U.S. President Donald Trump\'s latest pick for national security adviser has called for regime change in North Korea, prompting worries in Asia ahead of a historic summit between Washington and Pyongyang.Trump announced in a tweet he was replacing H.R. McMaster with John Bolton, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations who has advocated the use of military force against North Korea and Iran and has previously been rejected as a negotiating partner by Pyongyang."This is worrisome news," said Kim Hack-yong, conservative lawmaker and head of the national defense committee of South Korea\'s parliament. "North Korea and the United States need to have dialogue but this only fuels worries over whether the talks will ever happen."At Seoul\'s presidential Blue House, which has been forced to navigate between the unpredictable personalities of leaders in both Pyongyang and Washington, officials were circumspect."Our stance is that if a new road opens, we have to go that path," a senior Blue House official told reporters. "Bolton has much knowledge on the issues regarding the Korean peninsula and most of all, we know him to be one of the U.S. president\'s aides who is trusted."He said Chung Eui-yong, South Korea\'s National Security Office head, had not yet spoken with Bolton and that Chung\'s reaction to McMaster\'s dismissal was "not bad".Another administrative official in Seoul expressed regret over the loss of camaraderie McMaster had built with his South Korean counterpart as they had tackled North Korea\'s nuclear issue together.Both officials requested not to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue."A ROCKY PATH"Bolton had described Trump\'s plan to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as "diplomatic shock and awe" and said it would be an opportunity to deliver a threat of military action."I think this session between the two leaders could well be a fairly brief session where Trump says, \'Tell me you have begun total denuclearization, because we\'re not going to have protracted negotiations. You can tell me right now or we\'ll start thinking of something else\'", he told Washington\'s WMAL radio station.Former South Korean intelligence official Nam Sung-wook said Trump may not even get the opportunity to deliver that message."Bolton being tapped for this position makes for a very difficult situation where the U.S.-North Korea summit may not even happen," he said. "Its going to be a rocky path even before the summit."The meeting is supposed to happen by the end of May, but an exact time and place have yet to be settled on.Pyongyang had no immediate comment about Bolton, whosecriticism of then-North Korean leader Kim Jong Il and Pyongyang\'s human rights record in 2003 spurred state media to call him "human scum and bloodsucker."North Korean officials would not recognize him as a representative of the U.S. government or talk with him because of his "political vulgarity and psychopathological condition", state media said at the time.HOPES AND WORRIES IN ASIABolton\'s appointment came 10 days after Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, another moderating influence, replacing him with CIA director Mike Pompeo.His appointment will further diminish hope for China and the United States to see eye-to-eye on security issues, according to Shi Yinhong, an expert on China-U.S. relations at Renmin University in Beijing."What security cooperation with China can there be? Nuclear weapons, North Korea, Taiwan, South China Sea, cyberspace  Where is there hope for cooperation?" Shi said."Trump and Xi Jinping have spoken in public of the logic of cooperation, but with the negative direction of trade and security cooperation, these words seem more and more empty."Zhao Tong, an expert on North Korea and nuclear disarmament at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center in Beijing, said Boltons previous calls for China to pursue regime change in North Korea, as well as for a reunification of the peninsula under the South Korean government, was "very unrealistic".His views on strategic security issues will reinforce the Chinese convictions that it needs to build up its hard power," Zhao said.Tokyo expressed hopes communication with Washington would go on as normal, with one Japanese government official saying he was "very optimistic" Japan would be able to get along with Bolton as he has many friends inside the Japanese government.Narushige Michishita, a professor at Tokyo\'s Graduate Institute for Policy Studies, said Bolton\'s toughness could present a hurdle in dealing with Pyongyang."The problem is that he doesn\'t have any flexibility. That\'s a negative concern that I have," Michishita said.(Reporting by Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Heekyong Yang and Josh Smith in SEOUL, Christian Shepherd in BEIJING and Linda Sieg in TOKYO; Editing by Bill Tarrant)
PORT LINCOLN, Australia  It has been called Australias answer to the Galpagos: a stretch of rich, pristine ocean facing the Antarctic that is home to calving whales and teeming fisheries that have turned local boat captains into tuna barons.But now the waters, known here as the Great Australian Bight, or just the Bight for short, have drawn a different sort of resource industry: The Norwegian oil giant Statoil plans to start drilling by the end of 2019 to tap what experts call one of the worlds great remaining natural gas reserves.Here in a country built on resource extraction, where the fossil fuel industry has a long history of political connections that often give it priority over the environment, people fear that this haven for some of the most unusual marine life in the world will be damaged and put at even greater risk from a spill.Our fishing industry, our tourism industry, our lifestyle, our local food and our wildlife all depend on a pristine coastline, said a marine adventure company employee, Elise Lavers, while swimming with endangered Australian sea lions. She called the Bight one of the worlds best-kept environmental secrets.We have too much at stake to allow oil drilling in the Great Australian Bight to occur, Ms. Lavers said.The pressure to seek an oil and gas bonanza is especially intense because of local politics: Much of the Bight extends along the state of South Australia, a struggling postindustrial area where talk of jobs and economic growth dominated a recent local election.Whether to open the Bight to drilling was a crucial issue in the election this past week to select lawmakers for the S Parliament. Leading politicians at the national level have chimed in over the years, with pro-growth candidates arguing that the oil and gas industry would create jobs and wealth in South Australia and beyond for decades to come.Statoils decision to undertake exploration is good news for the South Australian economy, said Matt Canavan, a conservative senator from the state of Queensland. Even though pro-drilling candidates won in hard-fought races, plans to extract natural gas here still have to be approved by Australias offshore oil and gas drilling regulator. Statoil insists that exploration will be safe.Australia has reached its 27th consecutive year without a recession by supplying energy and raw materials like iron ore to the manufacturing economies of Asia, and particularly China. Opening the Bight to drilling would help Australia stay on track to eclipse Qatar as the worlds largest exporter of natural gas by 2020.But opposition to the drilling plan highlights the limitations of relying so heavily on the exploitation of natural resources and their export. The plan has met surprisingly strong resistance, despite the need for jobs in a region where manufacturing used to employ one in five workers. Six town councils have raised objections to the drilling.Communities on Australias southern coast are questioning whether the government can justify putting at risk a unique marine wilderness area that supports the countrys most valuable fisheries and a tourism industry worth more than $1 billion.The term bight is related to the words bend and bow, and it refers to the crescent shape of a bay, with a curve shallow enough that mariners in a square-rigged ship could sail out in a single tack, regardless of wind direction. Its shared pronunciation with bite is a coincidence, although from space, it does look as though a giant bit into the southern coast of Australia. The bay runs for more than 700 miles, lined by the longest stretch of sea cliffs in the world.Port Lincoln, a small seaside town of around 16,000 where sealing and whaling reaches back to the 1820s, is the main jumping-off point for access to the Bight. Today, the enormous wealth that it continues to bring is evident in the mansions that dot its coast  homes of the tuna barons who have made millions from selling to Japan, where sushi chefs pay top dollar for Australian tuna.Theres potential for an oil spill that would be catastrophic for the industry and other industries along the coast, said Robbie Staunton, marine operations manager at Stehr Group, one of Australias leading seafood companies.Computer modeling by the British oil company BP, which withdrew in 2016 from its plan to drill in the Bight, projected that an accident similar to the Deepwater Horizon blowout in 2010 could cause environmental damage along a wide stretch of the southern Australian coastline. This raised local concerns, particularly because the Bights waters are deeper, rougher and more remote than those of the Gulf of Mexico.The projection also raised another problem: whether Australia was even equipped to deal with an accident at an offshore drilling platform. The equipment needed to contain a blowout by capping the flow of oil is thousands of miles away in Singapore, and would take up to 35 days to put in place.History shows that the risks are often substantial, said Kirsten Rough, a researcher for the tuna industry for more than two decades.There are also environmental risks in the techniques used to locate the oil and gas before drilling begins. Seismic surveys to find the undersea deposits rely on loud explosions that, according to researchers, could drive fish away  especially the tuna that matter most to the area.Fishermen say they have already noticed disruptions in the movements of tuna since the surveys began.Others in the fishing industry, though, are more resigned to sharing the waters with drilling rigs. Though initially opposed to the drilling, Hagen Stehr said the focus now should shift to making sure that its impact is limited. This would include ensuring that seismic surveys are not conducted during the times of year when the hauls of fish are the largest.You cant stop the development in the Bight, said Mr. Stehr, one of the towns best-known tuna barons, in his Port Lincoln office, surrounded by photographs of himself with former prime ministers.What right have we got to have exclusive rights? asked Mr. Stehr, a native of Germany who started fishing tuna by hand after jumping ship in Port Lincoln in 1960. South Australia is on its knees.Others worry that drilling will push a fragile environment past its limit.The Great Australian Bight is Australias Galpagos, said Jeff Hansen, who led a ship from the environmental activist group Sea Shepherd, which docked in the state this month to persuade politicians to protect the Bight.Risking it in a push to expand the fossil fuel industry is the height of irresponsibility, he said.Many locals harbor deep suspicions about the drilling. They describe a lack of transparency about deals between politicians and big business that has led to a mood of distrust, and a sense of defeat.You know youll be told this is safe as can be, said Brendan Guidera, an owner of Pristine Oysters in Coffin Bay, a sleepy coastal town near Port Lincoln.When theres so much money behind something like this, you dont necessarily trust everything youre told, he said.Oyster growers worry that a spill would be devastating for their industry as well. Coffin Bay oysters are favored by top restaurants across Australia.Rob Kerin, head of the association that represents the states oyster industry, said, Youve got to look at the worst-case scenario, and the worst-case scenario doesnt look good for us.
LONDON   Following are five big themes likely to dominate thinking of investors and traders in the coming week and the Reuters stories related to them.1/WAR CRIESIf fears of a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies, the United States and China, weren\'t enough to set the nerves racing, the two sides are butting against each other in the South China Sea again and Donald Trump has just tossed in the threat of another U.S. government shutdown.Next week will probably see a drama involving all three and possibly other elements too that we don\'t even know about yet.However, some experienced analysts suggest that the rout in stocks may not point to panic over a full-scale trade war.Graphic - Global stocks sell-off: https://reut.rs/2pBpWF12/HUNG, DRAWN AND QUARTEREDThe first quarter draws to a close, and what a quarter it has been. Investors have had a lot thrown at them - from the biggest ever rise in stock market volatility to rapidly escalating tensions over global trade, deepening tumult in the White House and tech sector wobbles.The market "melt-up" they all talked about in January has melted away, the Dow and S&P are down for the year, and the outlook for Q2 is a great deal more uncertain. Global trade tensions are now infecting investor sentiment and risk appetite, there are signs that growth has peaked (particularly in Europe), rising dollar interbank rates show no sign of reversing, and the global liquidity pool will shrink this year.Will the bears continue to gain the upper hand in Q2, or will the bulls charge again?Graphic - Q1 returns - winners & losers: http://reut.rs/2pAC6xX3/GROWING TO PLANThe final U.S. government read on fourth quarter GDP on Wednesday will come hot on the heels of the Federal Reserve\'s first interest rate hike of the year.In theory it should be reassuring. The United States is a fairly closed economy, and in the fourth quarter Donald Trump was dishing out tax cuts, not threatening trade wars.The U.S. Commerce Department also said on Friday that new orders for key U.S.-made capital goods rebounded more than expected last month and shipments of core capital goods saw the biggest advance since December 2016.Other realtime data, though, is not so encouraging. An Atlanta Federal Reserve model which updates weekly is now forecasting Q1 GDP increasing at an annualised rate of 1.8 percent. At the start of March it was churning out numbers around 3.5 percent.Graphic - U.S. GDP: https://reut.rs/2pz3u004/SELL EUROPE?High expectations for European stocks in 2018 have not been met. Euro zone and UK business confidence data due out next week will either inflame or soothe concerns that the region\'s economic momentum may be starting to wane.Morgan Stanley equity strategists say Europe is now seeing record outflows versus the United States, and even the popularity of French President Emmanual Macron - elected last year with a strong mandate to reform rigid labour markets - has now hit an all-time low in the polls.The French CAC-40 share index is now down 5 percent from when Macron won power last May, though that is still better than the near 7 percent the pan-European Stoxx 600 has lost.Graphic - Economic surprises: euro zone vs U.S.: http://reut.rs/2pyuBaT5/UNFRIENDEDThe Facebook shock has been a hugely significant moment in this long-running bull market. Tech and internet stocks  such as the fabled FAANGs and BATs  have dominated and driven the equity rally of the past 2-3 years  mainly because the digital revolution underlying the boom in those companies was seen as largely impervious to shifting political winds or even ebbs and flows in the economic cycle.In the long run that may still be true. But Facebooks travails and questions over the use of Big Data more generally - or at least the advertising model underlying many of these companies - has cast some doubt over whether that progress is as linear as market pricing suggests.Next week may well be all about the growls coming from governments and their regulators on how far they will go to rein in the power of social networks. Mark Zuckerberg already has a long list of what are not exactly \'friend\' requests to testify in front of various countries\' lawmakers.Graphic - Unfriended: http://reut.rs/2psCzTp(Writing by Marc Jones, additional reporting by Jamie McGeever, Danilo Masoni, Kit Rees and Alden Bentley; Editing by Gareth Jones)
HONG KONG   Luis Suarez became the first player to score 50 goals for Uruguay on Friday when the Barcelona striker scored a penalty to set up a China Cup final meeting with Wales following a 2-0 win over Czech Republic.Suarez smashed the ball high into the net from the penalty spot in the 10th minute after being brought down in the area by Czech goalkeeper Jiri Pavlenka. Edinson Cavani sealed the win eight minutes before halftime with a spectacular overhead kick."The Welsh team have made remarkable progress in recent years and they have internationally renowned players," said Uruguay coach Oscar Tabarez."But this is an opportunity for us and the final won\'t be an easy game. It will be a difficult test for us."Wales reached the final with a 6-0 thrashing of hosts China on Thursday, with Gareth Bale scoring a hat-trick to become his nation\'s all-time leading goal scorer.Uruguay are using the tournament as preparation for this year\'s World Cup finals, where the South Americans have been drawn to face hosts Russia, Saudi Arabia and Egypt.(Reporting by Michael Church, Editing by Christian Radnedge)
WASHINGTON  President Trumps flurry of trade moves this past week raised uncertainty and confusion among financial markets, trading partners, lawmakers and American industry, prompting many to ask what, exactly, his endgame might be.Just one day before stiff steel and aluminum tariffs were set to go into effect, Mr. Trump offered a temporary 11th-hour reprieve to several allies, including some of the biggest foreign suppliers of steel. Many of them had spent the previous two weeks frantically lobbying the administration for a permanent exemption, but the White House said late Thursday that those nations would have until May 1 to negotiate satisfactory alternative means to address the national security threat that America faced from a reliance on foreign metals.In addition to the metals tariffs, the White House announced levies on up to $60 billion worth of Chinese imports, a move that provoked immediate promises of retaliation by China and sent stock markets into a tailspin. On Saturday morning, the Chinese vice premier for financial and industrial policy, Liu He, told Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in a phone call that the United States actions against China violate international trade rules and run counter to American, Chinese and global interests. He warned that China has the strength to defend its national interests.On Friday, Mr. Trump boasted that his approach would produce better trade deals for the United States, including what he said was a breakthrough in negotiations with South Korea. Some tremendous trade deals are being made with various countries, he said. Were negotiating very long, very hard, but very quickly.But it is far from clear that such agreements will be completed and, if they are, who will be on the winning end.What is increasingly clear to many on Capitol Hill and in the business community is that the White House is seizing on trade as a negotiating tool, trying to use the nations economic dominance as leverage to pressure other countries to bend to its will.Trump prefers to negotiate at the point of a gun, said Robert E. Scott, a senior economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute in Washington. But he questioned the wisdom of not outlining the goals of the negotiation at the outset, particularly with allies.I think it would have been better to make this explicit when they laid out the tariffs, Mr. Scott said.The approach is rattling some of Mr. Trumps otherwise ardent supporters, who worry that his unpredictable trade actions could hurt many of the industries and workers he has pledged to protect.While serious problems persist in the global steel market, President Trumps steel and aluminum tariffs were a blunt and misaimed response, J. D. Foster, the chief economist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, wrote on Friday morning.Administration officials seem to see the chaos and fallout from blunt trade moves as a cost of doing business in a global economy.Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, struggled on Thursday to soothe farm-state senators on the Finance Committee who worried about Chinese retaliation against their constituents products.Every time we take a trade action, agriculture is in the cross hairs, Mr. Lighthizer said. Its something were very sympathetic to, he added, though he did not detail how the administration might try to mitigate that impact.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross was similarly pressed on Thursday by House Republicans and Democrats who, after American companies were forced to apply for steel and aluminum tariff exemptions, called it a chaotic process.Representative Peter Roskam, Republican of Illinois, described the ashen faces he had seen at a company that was being forced to apply for individual exclusions for a large number of the imported products it needed.Mr. Ross offered him little comfort. Its the best we could do, sir, he said, referring to the departments process for evaluation those applications.He later rattled free-trade Republicans when, on CNBC, he agreed that the Chinese tariffs would produce some ultimate retaliation, but I dont think its going to be the end of the earth.Nervous Republicans on Capitol Hill say the administrations frequently and hastily altered plans to impose the tariffs suggest that Mr. Trump and his aides are devising trade policy on the fly. Even some supporters of the tariffs say it is unclear from the outside how Mr. Trump plans to leverage them to bring about a broader global offensive against the overproduction of the metals by countries such as China.Other supporters remain optimistic that Mr. Trump will succeed in using the threat of tariffs to win concessions from trading partners that benefit America.Mr. Trump has long argued that China is cheating under the global rules of trade and has vowed to reduce the United States trade deficit with China and other countries. The administration has accused China of flooding the world market with cheap steel, which can make its way to the United States after landing in another country. That argument is what motivated Mr. Trumps initial declaration last month that he would impose what is effectively a tax of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on imported aluminum from every country in the world.He has since backtracked, in a series of decisions that have stirred chaos in Washington and abroad. On Thursday, the United States temporarily exempted the European Union, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, Australia, Argentina and Brazil from the tariffs. And the White House raised the specter of another showdown, saying that the tariffs would be lifted only until May 1, pending negotiations, and that it could impose quotas on metal imports from those countries at any point.Inside and outside Congress, trade experts have found themselves guessing at what is coming next on trade, and whether Mr. Trump has a broader strategy.A theory in trade policy circles is that Mr. Trump may have announced the tariffs  and set the window for negotiating with allies who are initially exempted  to pressure those allies to impose their own tariffs on steel and aluminum on countries like China and South Korea. Those countries have been identified by the Commerce Department as the worst offenders in global overproduction of those metals.Clearly, those are the countries that are the source of most excess capacity, Mr. Scott said. So the best thing to do would be to find a way to circle the wagons, and wall off the rest of the world from those bad actors.If that is the administrations goal, it has chosen a curious route to it. For one, it has thus far denied an exemption to Japan, a prominent ally and now Americas largest source of steel that still faces the tariffs. And it temporarily exempted South Korea, which most trade hawks consider a major source of the steel overcapacity problem.The Korean inclusion points to a second possible strategy, one that is less about walling off excess steel in China and more about using the metals tariffs as a weapon to win trade concessions from individual partners. Mr. Ross seemed to offer some clues on Friday that this was the strategy, when he said a new trade agreement with South Korea would address the tariffs  known in trade jargon as Section 232  and other issues.We believe we are relatively close to a pretty comprehensive resolution with the South Korean government, Mr. Ross said. It will encompass, if it goes through, both the 232s and broader trade issues. And we hope by sometime next week to be able to have a real announcement.
WASHINGTON   President Ronald Reagan once likened trade wars to the pie fights in old Hollywood comedies. One pie in the face leads to another. And then another.Pretty soon, Reagan said in a 1986 radio address, "everything and everybody just gets messier and messier. The difference here is that it\'s not funny. It\'s tragic. Protectionism becomes destructionism. It costs jobs."Suddenly, the world\'s financial markets are gripped by fear that an escalating trade rift between the United States and China  the  two mightiest economies  could smear the world with a lot of splattered cream and broken crust. If it doesn\'t prove tragic, as Reagan warned, it may still inflict far-reaching pain.The Dow Jones industrial average lost a combined nearly 1,150 points Thursday and Friday after President Donald Trump set his administration on a path to restrict Chinese investment in the United States and impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese products."We should be very worried," said Bryan Riley, director of the conservative National Taxpayer Union\'s Free Trade Initiative. "It\'s very possible this could escalate into something that neither country intends."The trade sanctions that Trump unveiled Thursday are meant to punish Beijing for pilfering technology from American companies or for forcing them to hand over technology in exchange for access to China\'s market. The announcement followed a seven-month investigation by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative into the tactics China has deployed to try to overtake American technological supremacy."China has not been playing by the rules," said Stephen Ezell, director of global innovation policy at the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation think tank.Unbowed, China immediately threatened to retaliate if the United States followed through on its actions.On Friday, Beijing unveiled a broad list of U.S. products  from apples and wine to pork to steel pipe  that could face retaliatory Chinese tariffs in a separate trade spat with Washington. That dispute is over taxes that Trump imposed this month on imported steel and aluminum."We don\'t want a trade war, but we are not afraid of it," said Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China\'s Foreign Ministry.The stakes are even higher in the standoff over Beijing\'s technology policies than in the old-school dispute over metals. An industrial nation\'s ability to harness technology is increasingly vital to healthy economic expansion."If China dominates the industries of the future, it will be very difficult for the United States to have an economic future," Peter Navarro, a key White House trade adviser, told reporters.Trade tensions are rising at a delicate time. The world economy has finally emerged from the shadow of the Great Recession. Major regions are growing in tandem for the first time in a decade. International economic growth is expected to reach a seven-year high of 3.9 percent this year. Last year, global trade expanded 4.2 percent, the most since 2011.Some trade experts fear that a conflict over technology will erupt into an escalating war of sanctions between the world\'s two biggest economies  Reagan\'s destructive pie fight.The U.S.-China tensions remind economists and trade analysts of the Reagan-era skirmishes between the United States and Japan, which at the time appeared to pose a grave threat to U.S. economic dominance."This is \'Back to the Future\'  that old \'80s film," said Rod Hunter, a former White House trade adviser. Indeed, Trump\'s top trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, is a veteran of the trade battles with Tokyo, having served in the Reagan administration.To target China, Trump and Lighthizer dusted off a Cold War weapon from the Reagan years: Section 301 of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974, which lets the president unilaterally impose tariffs. The provision was meant for a world in which much of global commerce wasn\'t covered by trade agreements. But with the arrival in 1995 of the World Trade Organization, Section 301 fell largely into disuse.In some ways, a  hard-nosed approach succeeded against Japan three decades ago. Under U.S. pressure, Tokyo agreed to "voluntary export restraints" to limit auto shipments to the United States. But to bypass the limits, Japanese automakers simply built plants in the American South.Likewise, the Reagan administration in 1985 strong-armed Japan, Germany, France and Britain to raise their currencies\' values to help U.S. manufacturers squeezed by a strong dollar, which makes U.S. goods costlier overseas.But the United States wielded unusual leverage with Japan. The two countries are close political allies; Japan depends on U.S. military protection. China, by contrast, is a geopolitical rival, far less likely to bend to U.S. pressure.It\'s true that China has benefited enormously from access to the American market and has much to lose: Last year, it exported $375 billion more in goods to the United States than it bought in return  a record trade gap that irritates Trump.But a full-blown trade war would test Trump\'s fortitude for commercial combat and would certainly hurt many Americans, including some of Trump\'s supporters. Most directly, U.S. tariffs would raise costs for consumers and businesses.Trade groups are already lobbying the Trump administration to seek diplomatic solutions to the disputes. China\'s all-powerful leaders face no such public pressure."We live in a society where stakeholders in Congress are going to put a lot of pressure on the administration," said Wendy Cutler, a former U.S. trade official who is vice president at the Asia Society Policy Institute. "In China, they don\'t."Still, the 301 sanctions might be enough to prod the Chinese to return to the negotiating table to consider softening their aggressive technology policies."If this gets the two countries back to the table to talk about this, then that is a good outcome," said Erin Ennis, senior vice president at the US-China Business Council. "If the idea is to inflict sufficient pain so that China feels it has no choice but to change its policies, then I\'m skeptical."____

NEW YORK   Stocks around the world plunged Friday as investors feared that a trade conflict between the U.S. and China, the biggest economies in the world, would escalate. A second day of big losses pushed U.S. stocks to their worst week in two years.Investors fear that if China responds in kind to sanctions on $60 billion worth of Chinese imports the White House announced on Thursday, it will be a first step toward a full-blown trade war that could damage the global economy and slash profits at big U.S. exporters like Apple and Boeing.The market\'s two biggest sectors slumped the most. Technology stocks have made enormous gains over the past year, but since they do so much business outside the U.S., investors see them as particularly vulnerable in a trade dispute. The sector dropped 7.9 percent this week.Banks also fell sharply. Amid the trade-war rumblings, investors fled to the safety of bonds and drove down yields, a potential negative for bank profits. That marked a reversal from earlier in the week, when banks rose as the Federal Reserve raised interest rates.It wound up being the worst week for U.S. indexes since January 2016. The S&P 500 index sank 6 percent. Among notable decliners was Facebook, which lost 13.9 percent, or $68 billion in value, as outrage mounted over its handling of user data. That\'s about as much as the company was worth in in 2012, the year of its initial public offering.Stocks sagged at the start of this month after tariffs on aluminum and steel were announced, but they quickly recovered as the administration said the tariffs wouldn\'t be as severe as they first looked. The losses this week were worse, and investors are hoping for hints the sanctions on China are more of a negotiating tactic."There could be a possibility of a bounce back if, as this progresses, both sides look like they\'re negotiating," said Lisa Erickson, chief investment officer at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "There could be further decline if people get a sense there could be more trade restrictions in place."The S&P 500 index dropped 55.43 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,588.26 on Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 424.69 points, or 1.8 percent, to 23,533.20. The Nasdaq composite fell 174.01 points, or 2.4 percent, to 6,992.67.Germany\'s DAX lost 1.8 percent and the French CAC-40 fell 1.4 percent. The FTSE 100 in Britain dipped 0.4 percent. Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index plunged 4.5 percent and South Korea\'s Kospi tumbled 3.2 percent. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng lost 2.5 percent.Big U.S. companies tend to get more of their revenue from foreign customers than small companies do, and that makes them more vulnerable to damage from a trade war. With nearly 1.4 billion people, China is a big market for the largest U.S. businesses.Not every company breaks out how much of its revenue comes from abroad, but FactSet estimates that 30.5 percent of revenue at big companies in the S&P 500 comes from outside the United States. For the smaller companies in the S&P 600 index, it\'s just 19.5 percent. Smaller companies are also getting a bigger benefit from the recent cut in corporate tax rates."We think a lot of the areas in the market with the greatest potential for earnings improvement this year are small- and mid-cap stocks, things that have the biggest benefit from tax reform and are less subject to trade wars," said Eric Marshall, portfolio manager at Hodges mutual funds.The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks sank 33.79 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,510.08, but it\'s flat this month while the S&P 500 is down 4.6 percent.Sales outside the U.S. are especially important for technology companies. Roughly $1 of every $5 in Apple\'s sales came from China, Hong Kong and Taiwan in its last year. That doesn\'t take into account how much of the manufacturing and assembly of Apple products is done in Chinese factories, which could be affected if trade restrictions start piling up. On Friday chipmakers fared especially badly.Investors kept buying bonds, sending prices higher and yields lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note slipped to 2.81 percent from 2.83 percent.In another sign investors are nervous, gold and silver prices jumped. Gold climbed $22.50, or 1.7 percent, to $1,349.90 an ounce and silver gained 20 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $16.58 an ounce. The dollar fell to 104.82 yen from 105.61 yen. The euro rose to $1.2367 from $1.2307.Defense contractors including Raytheon and Lockheed Martin climbed after President Donald Trump signed a new government funding bill that provides increases in military spending. He had tweeted a threat to veto the measure.The price of oil climbed $1.58, or 2.5 percent, to $65.88 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, the international standard for oil prices, added $1.54, or 2.2 percent, to $70.45 a barrel in London.Wholesale gasoline rose 2 cents to $2.04 a gallon. Heating oil added 3 cents to $2.02 a gallon. Natural gas dipped 3 cents to $2.59 per 1,000 cubic feet.Copper fell 3 cents to $2.99 a pound.____Stan Choe contributed from New York. Kelvin Chan contributed from Hong Kong and Pan Pylas contributed from London.
WASHINGTON  The incoming national security adviser has called for the swift takeover of North Korea by the South. He and the newly nominated secretary of state have urged withdrawal from the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran. The pick for C.I.A. director once oversaw interrogations in which terrorism suspects were tortured.The two generals celebrated by President Trump for their reputations for toughness are now considered the moderates  and at risk of falling out of favor.Not since the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001, have key national security leaders so publicly raised the threat of military confrontation if foreign adversaries do not meet Americas demands.But George W. Bushs war cabinet was responding to the biggest direct attack on the United States since Pearl Harbor. The current moment of peril arises from Mr. Trumps conviction that the United States is being pushed around by adversaries who need to understand that America First means they have a brief window to negotiate a deal, or force may follow.Now, the members of Mr. Trumps newly constituted team are about to face multiple, simultaneous tests of their past proclamations and sometimes conflicting instincts. North Korea and Iran pose the most immediate challenge, with Mr. Trump setting negotiation deadlines that are only months away.Over the longer term, they must straighten out the strategic incoherence surrounding Mr. Trumps approach to Russia and China, defining the meaning of the administrations policy declaration earlier this year that great power competition  not terrorism  is now the primary focus of U.S. national security.Washington is now consumed by a debate over whether Mr. Trumps new team plans to govern as far to the right as it talks.So far, the incoming national security adviser, John R. Bolton, has declared that his past comments are behind me. Hours after his selection was announced, Mr. Bolton vowed that he would find ways to execute the policies that Mr. Trump was elected on, but that he would not tolerate slow-walking and leaks from bureaucrats he dismissed as munchkins.Some who know Mr. Bolton and his operating style predict titanic clashes.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, the retired general who has argued for keeping the Iran deal intact and warned that military confrontation with North Korea would result in the worst kind of fighting in most peoples lifetimes, told colleagues on Friday that he did not know if he could work with Mr. Bolton. The White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, another retired four-star general, was also unenthusiastic about Mr. Boltons hiring.Mr. Boltons harshest critics  mostly Democrats, but their ranks include some members of the Bush administration  argue that the odds of taking military action will rise dramatically when he becomes the last person a volatile American president consults.John Bolton is not some gray bureaucrat whose views are unknown to us, said Michael McFaul, the American ambassador to Moscow under President Barack Obama, and now a Stanford professor and the director of the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies.Hes very clear that there should be regime change in Iran and North Korea, and military force should be used to achieve those goals, Mr. McFaul said. If you hire him, youre making a clear signal thats what you want.But others who have worked for years with Mr. Bolton argue that Mr. Trump knows exactly what he is getting: leverage, not conflict.I think this notion everybody talks about, that the risks of war have gone up, is wrong, said Stephen J. Hadley, who was Mr. Bushs national security adviser and a major architect of the invasions of Afghanistan in 2001 and Iraq in 2003. This is the peace-through-strength crowd who want to make clear to people that theyre tough and that no one should cross them. But the reason for that is to deter war.Dov Zakheim, a former senior Defense Department official who has known Mr. Bolton for 35 years, wrote on Friday that Mr. Bolton may be a fire breather, but he is a man who cares deeply about his country, in comparison to his boss, who cares deeply about Donald Trump.Whatever Mr. Trumps motives, his selection of this team would have been hard to imagine when he first came to office declaring that the continued American presence in Iraq was a disaster, that he was comfortable with Japan and South Korea getting their own nuclear weapons so the United States would not have to defend them, and that America would no longer be the worlds policeman.Mr. Bolton has come to the opposite conclusion.He not only fervently advocated the attack on Saddam Hussein from his post at the State Department during the Bush administration, but he also defended its aftermath, and has said he remains convinced it was the right decision. Over the past three years, Mr. Bolton has advocated bombing Iran, attacking North Korea, and carving a new state out of Iraq and Syria.Mike Pompeo, the nominee for secretary of state, said at the Aspen Security Conference in July that the most dangerous thing about North Korea was the fact that its young, moody and reportedly ruthless leader, Kim Jong-un, controls its weapons.So from the administrations perspective, the most important thing we can do is separate those two. Right? said Mr. Pompeo, who at the time was months into his current job as C.I.A. director. Separate capacity and someone who might well have intent, and break those two apart.Assuming that Mr. Pompeo is confirmed, he and Mr. Bolton, the two most forceful, aggressive new members of the policy team, will have to decide in what order they can risk those confrontations. The Trump administration has said it is open to direct talks with Mr. Kim by May  the same month by which the president has said he will scrap the Iran nuclear accord.Even if you are going to be a superhawk, you cant do all these at once, said Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, a former C.I.A. station chief in Moscow who later hunted down Pakistani nuclear technology as the Energy Departments chief intelligence officer. And if you want to go to war with Iran and North Korea, you have to expect to alienate your allies and run headlong into the Russians.William J. Burns, a longtime American diplomat who was Mr. Bushs ambassador to Russia and Mr. Obamas deputy secretary of state, predicted that if the new team exits the Iran deal and confronts North Korea, the first beneficiary is likely to be President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.He looks for splits, Mr. Burns said of Mr. Putin. He knows he will benefit if we walk away from the Iran deal, because it will put a wedge between us and our European allies.On North Korea, Mr. Burns said, Mr. Putin is seeking splits between the U.S. and China. We are doing his work for him.In fact, it is in dealing with Mr. Putin that the new team is likely to run headlong into Mr. Trumps reluctance to ever say a critical word about the Russian president. As C.I.A. chief, Mr. Pompeo has embraced the intelligence communitys conclusion that Russia meddled in the election, though he changes the subject quickly when asked about it.Mr. Bolton, by contrast, has ranked among Mr. Putins harshest critics. Last July, days after Mr. Trump met Mr. Putin for the first time at a summit meeting in Germany, Mr. Bolton wrote that the Russian interference in the 2016 election was a casus belli, a true act of war, and one Washington will never tolerate.Mr. Trump did not view it that way.He emerged from the meeting in Germany repeating Mr. Putins observation that the Russians were too skilled at cyberoperations to be caught if involved. Last week, Mr. Trump called Mr. Putin to congratulate him on winning a Russian election widely viewed as a sham, making no mention of the recent nerve-agent attack that Britain concluded, with American agreement, was a covert action by Moscow.If it was, it was being planned out as Mr. Pompeo was acting as the host to the directors of the three major Russian intelligence services in Washington earlier this month.The unknown factor in the new mix is Gina Haspel, the career intelligence officer who has been nominated to be the first woman to run the C.I.A. Since she has spent much of her career undercover  details of which the agency is just beginning to release, in an effort to lobby for her confirmation  her foreign policy views are largely unknown.But her record in the terrorist detentions and interrogations following 9/11 is well documented. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who was tortured as a prisoner of war, this past week pointedly asked in a letter to Ms. Haspel, Do you believe actions like these were justified, and do you believe they produced actionable intelligence?At a moment when Mr. Trump has sided with the economic nationalists in his administration and ordered the imposition of tariffs on China to counter its restrictions on American companies and the forced transfer of American intellectual property, Mr. Bolton has gone one further.He has questioned whether the United States should abandon the One China policy that has been the underpinning of relations since the two countries resumed diplomatic relations.In 2016, Mr. Bolton wrote that confronting China may involve modifying or even jettisoning the ambiguous One China mantra, along with even more far-reaching initiatives to counter Beijings rapidly accelerating political and military aggressiveness in the South and East China Seas.It is unclear how that squares with Mr. Trumps campaign argument that the United States should pull its forces back from Asia unless South Korea and Japan pay more of the cost of keeping them there.But the most immediate decision facing the new team will be the benefits and costs of exiting the Iran deal. Mr. Trump cited his differences with Rex W. Tillerson on Iran in firing the secretary of state.Mr. Bolton and Mr. Pompeo have been among the harshest critics of the nuclear accord, but they have not said how they would manage the international backlash if Mr. Trump decides, by a May 12 legislative deadline, to resume the sanctions that the United States suspended when the deal was reached.If Washington breaches the deal, Iran may declare it is now free to resume producing nuclear fuel in unlimited quantities  limits it agreed to, for 15 years, in return for economic normalization. If so, that could put the United States and Israel back where they were in the years before the accord was reached: threatening military action to destroy Irans facilities, even at the risk of another Middle East war. That was the path Mr. Bolton advocated.In August, when Mr. Tillerson and Mr. Mattis wrote a joint op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal describing the merits of building economic pressure on North Korea in a policy of strategic accountability, Mr. Bolton said he was appalled.Time is not a neutral factor here, he said on Fox News, where he was a contributor. More negotiation with North Korea? I think theyd say bring it on. More time to increase the size and scope of their ballistic missile and nuclear capabilities. He will now be preparing Mr. Trump for that negotiation.
A half-century has passed since President Lyndon B. Johnson stunned Americans by announcing, in a televised address on March 31, 1968, that he was drastically reducing the bombing of North Vietnam, appealing to the Hanoi government for negotiations and, most incredible of all, withdrawing from the presidential election that fall. One imagines the stupefied reaction in living rooms all across the country: Did he just say what I think he said?Johnson did what modern American presidents are never supposed to do: refrain from seeking re-election. (Since World War II, only Harry Truman in 1952 has done likewise.) He feared that his health could not withstand four more years, but what really worried him was the Vietnam War and the divisions it had created. The war was not just a threat to his personal legacy; it was a threat to the very foundations of the liberal political order that he cherished so deeply and that had built so many middle-class American dreams.His viewers didnt know it, but Johnson had always suspected this moment would come. From his earliest days in office, he repeatedly told his wife, Lady Bird, and aides that he felt trapped on Vietnam, that he would be crucified for whatever he did, that the conflict in far-off Southeast Asia would ultimately be his downfall.Already in May 1964, a year before he committed the country to large-scale war, Johnson said to his national security adviser, McGeorge Bundy: I dont think its worth fighting for and I dont think we can get out. Its just the biggest damned mess. A year later, shortly before the first American ground forces set foot in Vietnam, Johnson told Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee: There aint no daylight in Vietnam. Theres not a bit.Publicly, Johnson projected optimism. But the truth is that he was always a bleak skeptic on Vietnam  skeptical that it could be won, even with American air power and ground troops, especially in view of the weaknesses of the South Vietnamese military and government, and skeptical that the outcome truly mattered to American and Western security.This attitude was reinforced by the opinions of people he valued. The Senate Democratic leadership on foreign policy  J. William Fulbright, Russell and Mike Mansfield, the majority leader  privately warned him in 1964 and 65 against Americanizing the war. Allied leaders abroad did the same, as did prominent voices in the press.His own vice president, Hubert H. Humphrey, a savvy politician who needed no reminder of the risks of losing a nation to Communism, insisted, in a memo in mid-February 1965, that the risks of escalation were far greater.If we find ourselves leading from frustration to escalation and end up short of a war with China but embroiled deeper in fighting in Vietnam over the next few months, Humphrey warned, political opposition will steadily mount, because Americans had not been persuaded that a major war on behalf of an ineffectual Saigon government was justified.At the same time, no senior military leader in 1965 offered the White House even a chance of rapid victory in Vietnam. Five years, 500,000 troops, was the general estimate Johnson heard. Where would that put the president in early 1968, as his campaign for re-election began in earnest? Right where he found himself as he sat down to deliver his announcement on March 31: in a protracted war with no end in sight.So why did he go in? Part of the answer, surely, is that escalation, if done quietly, gradually and without putting the nation on full war footing, offered Johnson the path of least immediate resistance (always a tempting option for a policymaker), especially in domestic political terms. Given his repeated public affirmations of Vietnams importance to American security, it made sense that he would remain steadfast, in the hope that the new military measures would succeed, lest he face accusations of backing down, of going soft.More than that, Johnson made the leap because for him, retreat from the struggle was inconceivable. He personalized the war, saw attacks on the policy as attacks on himself, and failed to see that his landslide victory in 1964 and the international and domestic context in early 1965 gave him considerable freedom of action  a point Humphrey cogently underscored in his February memo.From Day 1 to the end, Johnson was a hawk on Vietnam, which proves again that doubting warriors can be committed warriors. He always framed his options in such a way that standing firm appeared the only reasonable choice  it was full retreat, bomb the hell out of China, or stay the course. Never did he fully explore imaginative ways out of the conflict; for him, extrication without victory signified humiliation and defeat.This didnt mean Johnson rejected all talk of negotiations. After mid-1965 he pressed Under Secretary of State George Ball for new diplomatic ideas  although, as Ball later remarked, he really meant merely new channels and procedures.When negotiations with North Vietnam at last began in Paris in May 1968, Johnson took a firm line. He also continued the bombing and indeed increased it below the 19th Parallel and in Laos. In the 10 months from March 1 to Dec. 31, 1968, the Pentagon dropped a greater tonnage of bombs on Indochina than had been expended in the three years prior. This expanded bombing, Daniel Ellsberg hauntingly concludes in his memoir of the war, was obediently carried out by men from Secretary of Defense Clark Clifford on down to flight crews, who believed it served no national purpose whatever.Humphrey won the Democratic nomination in 1968, yet Johnson was reluctant to throw his full support behind him, privately accusing the vice president of being cowardly and disloyal whenever he expressed a desire to move policy even modestly in a dovish direction. Some part of Johnson preferred to see Richard Nixon as his successor, expecting, with reason, that the Republican would be more resolute than Humphrey in pursuing the war.And so it ended, the saga of Lyndon Johnsons presidency, its denouement having been anticipated by him at the beginning. He was a man who dreamed big dreams for the Great Society, who hoped that his prodigious efforts on civil rights, voting rights, education and Medicare would earn him a place alongside Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt  and who anticipated from the start that Vietnam would ruin it all.It bears all the markings of tragedy, but of a certain kind, more Shakespearean than Greek, more Macbeth than Agamemnon. Whereas for the Greek playwrights the universe tends to be deterministic, the hero at the mercy of forces beyond his control, for Shakespeare the tragedy lies in the very choices the protagonist makes. His Macbeth is no mere victim; he contributes to his own demise. The same must be said of Lyndon Johnson.For those seeking symbols there is, finally, this: On Jan. 22, 1973, Johnson died at his Texas ranch, two days after hearing Nixon, in his second inaugural address, hint at cuts to the Great Society and remind Americans how far they had come from that bleak time in 1968, when they faced the prospect of seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive conflict at home. The next day, Nixon announced a deal had been reached in Paris to end the war and bring peace with honor.
SATURDAY PUZZLE  If youre a grizzled veteran of weekend puzzles, youre familiar with Byron Walden. This is his 59th Saturday grid, and hes got nine Sundays to boot. Todays is suitably treacherous. Mr. Walden notes below that hes halfway to a prestigious record, constructor of the most Saturday Times puzzles, but for all we solvers know, Mr. Walden could go on to make a thousand of these infernal flummoxers. Enjoy!Oh, speaking of treachery and prestige, the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament is on, babies. If you are actually there, banzai! Pat yourself on the back for every right answer: I have been picking through old puzzles and they are hard. If you are home like me, get over to that site and try some yourself, or fork over a very reasonable $20 and participate remotely.15A: I thought this clue  Mr. or Mrs. Right?  was clever, but a bit cruel, as any hopes for a romantic bon mot were wanton; the answer is GOPER, meaning one in the Grand Ol Party, man or woman. The entry has been a word since 1951. Researching the origin of the term led me to an event Id never known about, the New York Zoo Escape of 1874, a newspaper hoax that quite possibly inspired Thomas Nast to create the elephant and donkeys symbolic roles in politics today.18A: Aw, Little Orphan Annie, so cute! That curly red hair, those little brown boots, those soulless, blank, EMPTY EYES. Shiver! This reference is to the comic, where none of the characters actually have pupils, and whose popularity was superseded at one point by the musical, then by more than one cinematic treatment. There are a few interesting tidbits to the Annie origin story:30A: This particular definition for CLEAVE hasnt been used in the Times puzzle since the early 50s, but its perfectly valid  cleave can mean to split from or stick to. This is an example of a homograph, of which there are many in the English language. Fewer are homographs that are also antonyms; these are known as contronyms, or even Janus words, after the Roman god of beginnings and passages, who was depicted with faces on the front and back of his head. My particular favorite of these is sanction. It seems like a word tailor made for politics, doesnt it?54A: The misdirection was strong on this one, for me at least. I imagined Achieved green efficiency? as meaning gone solar or something like that, even considering the question mark  some green technology, right? The game of golf, while availing a green as well, seems to be an example of inefficiency, famously a good walk spoiled, and infamously a wasteful assault on the environment. But I digress. When someone wastes no time and energy upon reaching the green, and drains the golf ball into the golf hole in one shot, theyve ONE PUTTED. Thereby making room in their schedule for more golf.3D: In the upper left corner, I had the most trouble with this entry. Without thinking, I wrote in elegists instead of EPICISTS, which slowed me down a bit. Im comforted by the highfalutin academic stuff I uncovered when considering the difference between epic and elegy, but, yeah, Homer is an epicist.6D: I appreciated the explanatory (if ribald) clause in Mr. Waldens notes below and figured that the subject in question in CLEVER DICK was a person (and the Oxford dictionary ostentatiously uses a she in its contextual example). I dont remember hearing this expression and doubt that Id use it myself, but it does remind me of an old favorite, Clever Hans, the horse from 100 years ago that could count. If you know about Hans, then you know why your dog is already in the kitchen even though you only just thought about fixing a snack for yourself during the next commercial.36D: Theres a huge variety of paintbrushes  this is a trade (or art, or hobby) that comes with plenty of specialized equipment. I thought of stipplers before MOTTLERS, but the latter are used for all types of cool faux finishes on walls in historic homes, like the Tiffany finish.37D: This is just one of those names you know or you dont, I think, and the Suez Canal was never one of my most fascinating topics. Once Id gotten the answer on crosses  Ferdinand de LESSEPS  I did a little research, in the hope that there could be some factoid about this guy Id be glad to know. Turns out that Mr. de Lesseps, after completing the Suez Canal, went to Central America and quite disastrously took a crack at a sea level canal through Panama. This version of the Panama Canal is lost to history, but it was a humanitarian disaster and curiously contained locks designed by Gustave Eiffel, in a last-ditch and failed attempt to complete it. De Lesseps wound up back in France, tainted and sentenced to jail for squandering money and lives in the tropical mud.Whatever you do, do not eat the sledge dog rations. Help is a click away.Now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the Crossword puzzles require a subscription.What did you think?
STOCKHOLM  Something was wrong with the Penguins, the incoming class of toddlers at the Seafarers Preschool, in a wooded suburb south of Stockholm.The boys were clamorous and physical. They shouted and hit. The girls held up their arms and whimpered to be picked up. The group of 1- and 2-year-olds had, in other words, split along traditional gender lines. And at this school, that is not O.K.Their teachers cleared the room of cars and dolls. They put the boys in charge of the play kitchen. They made the girls practice shouting No! Then they decided to open a proper investigation, erecting video cameras in the classroom.Science may still be divided over whether gender differences are rooted in biology or culture, but many of Swedens government-funded preschools are doing what they can to deconstruct them. State curriculum urges teachers and principals to embrace their role as social engineers, requiring them to counteract traditional gender roles and gender patterns.It is normal, in many Swedish preschools, for teachers to avoid referring to their students gender  instead of boys and girls, they say friends, or call children by name. Play is organized to prevent children from sorting themselves by gender. A gender-neutral pronoun, hen, was introduced in 2012 and was swiftly absorbed into mainstream Swedish culture, something that, linguists say, has never happened in another country.Exactly how this teaching method affects children is still unclear.One of the few peer-reviewed efforts to examine the methods effects, published last year in the Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, concluded that some behaviors do go away when students attend what the study called gender-neutral preschools.For instance, the children at these schools do not show a strong preference for playmates of the same gender, and are less likely to make assumptions based on stereotypes. Yet, the scientists found no difference at all in the childrens tendency to notice gender, suggesting that may be under a genetic influence.At the Seafarers Preschool, the effort sometimes has the feeling of a venture into uncharted territory.On a recent Friday in Hammarbyhojden, south of Stockholm, Elis Storesund, the schools in-house gender expert, sat bent over a work sheet with two teachers of the 4- and 5-year-old Seagulls, reviewing their progress on gender objectives.When we are drawing, said Melisa Esteka, 31, one of the teachers, we see that the girls  they draw a lot  they draw girls with lots of makeup and long eyelashes. Its very clear that they are girls. We ask, Dont boys have eyelashes? And they say, We know it is not like that in real life.Ms. Storesund, 54, nodded thoughtfully. They are trying to understand what it is to be a girl, she said.Ms. Esteka looked frustrated. She had set a goal for herself: To stop the children from identifying things as for girls or for boys. But lately, her students were absorbing stereotypes from billboards and cartoons, and sometimes it seemed like all the slow, systematic work of the Seafarers Preschool was flying away overnight.There is so much they bring with them, she said. They bring the whole world with them. We cant stop that from happening.Swedens experiment in gender-neutral preschools began in 1996 in Trodje, a small town near the edge of the Baltic Sea. The man who started it, Ingemar Gens, was not an educator but a journalist who dabbled in anthropology and gender theory, having studied Swedish men seeking mail-order brides in Thailand. Newly appointed as a district equal opportunity expert, Mr. Gens wanted to break down the norm of stoic, unemotional Swedish masculinity.Preschool struck him as the right place to do this. Swedish children spend much of their early life in government-funded preschools, which offer care at nominal cost for up to 12 hours a day starting at the age of 1.Two schools rolled out what was called a compensatory gender strategy. Boys and girls at the preschools were separated for part of the day and coached in traits associated with the other gender. Boys massaged each others feet. Girls were led in barefoot walks in the snow, and told to throw open the window and scream.We tried to do that  to educate boys in what girls already knew, and vice versa, said Mr. Gens, now 68. A wave of criticism broke over him, but that was expected.They said we were indoctrinating the kids, he said. I say were always indoctrinating kids. Bringing them up is indoctrination.Teachers were required to review videotapes of themselves with the children, to identify subtle differences in the way they interacted with boys and girls. Many found that they used more words, and more complex sentences, with girls.Helena Baggstrom, who taught at one of the schools, recalled watching footage of herself in a cloakroom, attending to children as they bundled up to go outside. She saw, to her shock, that she had helped one boy after another get dressed and run out the door. The girls, she realized, were expected to dress themselves.It was hard at first to see patterns, she said. We saw more and more, and we were horrified at what we saw.The strategy of separating boys and girls was later set aside in favor of a gender neutral approach intent on muting differences. Still, the spirit of Mr. Genss experiment had percolated through the government. In 1998, Sweden added new language to its national curriculum requiring that all preschools counteract traditional gender roles and gender patterns and encourage children to explore outside the limitations of stereotyped gender roles. Adoption of the practices varies widely, depending on the schools director.Traditionalists have raised occasional protests, complaining of liberal brainwashing. The far-right Sweden  Democrats party, which won about 13 percent of the vote in 2014, has promised to roll back teaching that seeks to change all children and young peoples behavior and gender identity.But in a political environment deeply split over immigration, gender-equality policies enjoy the support of Swedens largest parties, the center-left Social Democrats and the center-right Moderates.A columnist and mathematician named Tanja Bergkvist, one of the few figures who routinely attacks what she calls Swedens gender madness, says many Swedes are uncomfortable with the practice but are afraid to criticize it in public.They dont want to be regarded as against equality, she said. Nobody wants to be against equality.In Trodje, the first wave of preschoolers to attend gender-neutral preschools are now 20-somethings.Elin Gerdin, 26, part of that first wave, is studying to be a teacher. In appearance she is conventionally feminine, her long dark hair coaxed into spirals with a curling iron. This is something she points out  that in appearance she is conventionally feminine. It is the first sign that she views gender as something you could put on or take off, like a raincoat.This is a choice I have made because this is me, she said of her appearance. And this is me because I am a product of society.There are moments when her early education comes back to her in flashes.Ms. Gerdins friends have begun to have babies, and they post pictures of them on Facebook, swathed in blue or pink, in societys first act of sorting. Ms. Gerdin gets upset when this happens. She feels sorry for the children. She makes it a point to seek her friends out and tell them, earnestly, that they are making a mistake. This feels to her like a responsibility.We are a group of children who will grow up, and we will have children, and we will talk to them about this, she said. It is not easy to change a whole society.That process was just beginning at the Seafarers Preschool on a recent morning, when the children scrambled out of voluminous snowsuits. Underneath his, Otto, a sturdy 3-year-old, was wearing a dress.Otto prefers to wear dresses because he likes the way they fan out when he spins around, and it does not make him unusual here. Up until now, no one in Ottos life  not his grandparents, or babysitters, or fellow 3-year-olds  has told him that boys do not wear dresses, said his mother, Lena Christiansson, 36, matter-of-factly. She would like this to continue as long as possible.This expectation has become increasingly common, said Ms. Storesund, the Seafarers gender specialist.Now, parents ask us, What are you doing about gender? she said.Ms. Storesund is on hand to confront classroom dilemmas: When boys in the group for 3-year-olds refused to paint, or dance, and the group threatened to split along gender lines, she was brought in to unpack the problem, tinkering with the activities until she coaxed the boys back to equal participation.Preserving a gender-neutral environment is not simple. Carina Sevebjork Saur, 57, who has been teaching at the school for a year and a half, said she often catches herself saying the wrong thing, like an offhand compliment on a childs appearance.You are on your way to saying something, as a reflex, but you have to hold it back, she said. You can comment on clothes in other ways: Oh, my goodness, how many polka dots!The effort is compensated, teachers said, by the impression that they are unraveling mysteries, and as spring approached, some changes could be observed among the Penguins.One of the groups teachers, Izabell Sandberg, 26, noticed a shift in a 2-year-old girl whose parents dropped her off wearing tights and pale-pink dresses. The girl focused intently on staying clean. If another child took her toys, she would whimper.She accepted everything, Ms. Sandberg said. And I thought this was very girlie. It was like she was apologizing for taking up space.Until, that is, a recent morning, when the girl had put a hat on and carefully arranged bags around herself, preparing to set off on an imaginary expedition. When a classmate tried to walk off with one of her bags, the girl held out the palm of her hand and shouted No at such a high volume that Ms. Sandbergs head swiveled around.It was something they had been practicing.By the time March rolled round, the girl had gotten so loud that she drowned out the boys in the class, Ms. Sandberg said. At the end of the day, she was messy. The girls parents were less than delighted, she said, and reported that she had become cheeky and defiant at home.But Ms. Sandberg has plenty of experience explaining the mission to parents.This is what we do here, and we are not going to stop it, she said.
WASHINGTON   The Latest on student-led protests against gun violence (all times Eastern Daylight Time):7:15 p.m.A contingent of survivors of the 1999 Columbine High School shooting is among the thousands of marchers at a gun control rally in Denver.Students and their supporters packed into Civic Center Park near the state Capitol for a rally Saturday afternoon before spilling out onto streets through downtown. They held signs like "The Second Amendment Needs Amending" and "Prayers are Not Enough."Sixteen-year-old Columbine student Kalli Honeycutt, says her mother, who survived that shooting, has drilled it into her head to always be on the lookout.Honeycutt said she is demonstrating because she wants lawmakers to make it harder for people to get guns and cause tragedies like school shootings.Survivors of last month\'s Florida school shooting have described themselves as the "mass-shooting generation," noting that they were born after the Columbine shooting.___5:50 p.m.High school students led thousands of protesters in Seattle on Saturday, part of a nation-wide youth movement demanding tighter gun regulation in the wake of a Florida school shooting that left 17 people dead.Students held signs reading "Not One More" and chanted "Right now, right here, we refuse to live in fear." Teachers protested President Donald Trump\'s proposal to arm some of them in order to protect students from potential attackers.Much of the protest was directed at the National Rifle Association."I want to know that they care more about lives than profit, the NRA," said Naa\'Rai Taison, a 19-year-old student at Cornish College of the Arts. "We can still hold on to our traditions without having to lose lives."Similar "March for Our Lives" events were held at other cities across the country Saturday by demonstrators spurred to action in the wake of school shootings and other gun violence.___5:10 p.m.Dueling rallies were held at the same time in Helena, Montana, by gun-control and gun-rights advocates.At the gun-control rally, two teen sisters who helped organize the protest said they felt hope for the first time after the Parkland, Florida shooting survivors advocated for change."Finally, somebody was doing something about it, except it wasn\'t who you\'d expect  it was us," Mariah Thomas, 17, said to cheers. "It was students my own age who decided they wanted to put an end to gun violence."Across town outside the Montana Capitol, a smaller crowd of gun-rights advocates swore that no outsiders would dictate gun laws in Montana. One speaker, Montana State University student Joey Chester, drew boos when he referenced the other protest."If something went wrong there, the first people to show up are going to be people with guns," Chester said.The gun-control advocates gathered in Montana were among hundreds of thousands rallying nationwide at "March for Our Lives" events on Saturday. The events are intended to rally support for stricter gun control laws in the wake of school shootings.___4:10 p.m.Pro-gun activists held counter-protests at some cities across the western United States on Saturday, even as hundreds of thousands of people rallied at gun control events at the same time.In Salt Lake City, Utah about 500 pro-gun marchers walked to the state Capitol building, advocating for fortified schools and more armed teachers. An hour later, about 6,000 anti-gun violence demonstrators marched the same route in a call for more gun regulations.About two dozen gun-rights supporters staged a counter-protest in Phoenix, Arizona, holding flags and sometimes challenging opponents to debate gun issues.They were far outnumbered, however  the Arizona Department of Public Safety estimates that 15,000 people attended the "March for Our Lives" gun-control rally at the state Capitol. Two of the student organizers of the event opened it by urging young people to register to vote and boot out officeholders who won\'t act.___3:35 p.m.Chin high and tears streaming, Florida school shooting survivor Emma Gonzalez stood silent in front of thousands gathered for the "March for Our Lives" rally in Washington, D.C.She continued to stand silently as a few crowd members shouted out support. She remained silent as tentative chants broke out. Her silence continued as those attending also fell quiet, many weeping.The gripping moment stretched for 6 minutes and 20 seconds, the amount of time Gonzalez said it took a school shooter to kill 17 people and wound many others at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, last month.Gonzalez is one of several teens from the school to become gun control activists in the wake of the shooting. Their efforts have galvanized youth nationwide, with hundreds of thousands attending similar rallies across the country.Gonzalez wrapped up the Washington, D.C. rally with some homework for those who demonstrated nationwide:"One final plug," she said. "Get out there and vote."___3:15 p.m.Fifteen-year-old Brooke Solomon led thousands of demonstrators in a march through the downtown streets of Detroit. Ten-year-old Jack Thorne attended a similar event in Atlanta, Georgia with his mom. South Salem High School student Allison Hmura told protesters in Salem, Oregon that students shouldn\'t have to learn to "duck and cover."The youths were among hundreds of thousands at "March for Our Lives" events nationwide calling for stricter gun control in response to school shootings and gun violence."I\'m here marching for the thousands of under-represented black and brown kids, especially in Detroit," said Solomon, who wants background checks in all gun sales. "I\'m looking for tougher gun laws and legislation that includes banning semi-automatic and assault weapons."In Atlanta, Thorne held aloft a sign reading "Guns Don\'t Kill People. Ummm... Yes They Do," as he described how he and his classmates recently underwent active shooter drills in school.And Hmura called on the nearly 2,400 people gathered at the Salem rally to fight for change."There cannot be two sides to our safety in school where we should be learning, growing and making friends  not learning how to duck and cover," Hmura said.___3 p.m.U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio said in a prepared statement Saturday that he supports demonstrators\' rights to march at anti-gun rallies across the country, but called for activists to find common ground with opponents."While protests are a legitimate way of making a point, in our system of government, making a change requires finding common ground with those who hold opposing views," the Republican from Florida said.Rubio\'s district includes Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, where 17 people were killed in a school shooting last month. He said that a ban on bump stocks (used to make guns fire more rapidly), improvements to the gun background check system and other efforts were achieved by finding common ground with those who don\'t want certain gun bans."And finding common ground is what it will take to pass our red flag law so we can take guns away from dangerous people," Rubio said.Hundreds of thousands of people in cities across the United States are attending "March for Our Lives" rallies, calling on lawmakers to enact legislation to help stop school shootings and reduce gun violence.___2:20 p.m.Thousands of people are flooding the streets of downtown Los Angeles to demand stricter gun laws in the U.S.The rally was one of several being held across California and the United States on Saturday.Protesters held signs and chanted as they marched to Los Angeles City Hall for the "March for Our Lives" rally.Zoe Lopez, a 15-year-old high school freshman from Garden Grove, said she\'s attending the rally to demand additional regulations on gun purchases.In Sacramento, thousands chanted: "hey, hey, ho, ho, the NRA has got to go" as they assembled at the state\'s capitol.Rallies in Oakland and San Diego also drew hundreds of demonstrators.Similar rallies were being held in cities across America to march for gun control and ignite political activism among teenagers.___2:10 p.m.The granddaughter of civil rights icon Martin Luther King Jr. told tens of thousands of "March for Our Lives" demonstrators gathered in Washington, D.C. that she too has a dream  for a gun-free world."I have a dream that enough is enough," Yolanda Renee King said, referencing her grandfather\'s famous speech. "That this should be a gun-free world. Period."The crowd roared in response. The Washington, D.C. event has thousands thronging Pennsylvania Avenue to hear speakers including survivors of the recent school shooting in Parkland, Florida, and singers like Miley Cyrus.Hundreds of thousands of people attended youth-led, anti-gun rallies across the United States and the world on Saturday, calling on lawmakers to tighten gun control in order to stop mass shootings and gun violence.___1:55 p.m.Hundreds of students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School arrived for the Washington, D.C. march on three flights donated by Delta Air Lines.They\'ll return to Florida with Delta after the march too.The airline, which broke ties with the National Rifle Association after last month\'s school shooting that left 17 dead, said they offered the round-trip charter flights "as part of our commitment to supporting the communities we serve.After the shooting in Parkland, Delta said it would no longer offer discounted fares to NRA members to reflect its neutral status on the gun-control debate.The move triggered a backlash from gun advocates, and the state of Georgia killed a proposed tax break on jet fuel in retaliation.___1:45 p.m.A series of protests held across the United States Saturday in support of gun control is shaping up to be one of the biggest youth protests since the era of the Vietnam War.The "March for Our Lives" rallies are a call to action by student survivors of last month\'s school shooting in Florida that left 17 people dead.At Washington\'s "March for Our Lives" rally, throngs jammed Pennsylvania Avenue for blocks. Tens of thousands of teenagers and their supporters roared their approval as survivors of the Parkland, Florida, assault spoke from the stage. One of them, Delaney Tarr, laid down the students\' central demand, a ban on assault-type weapons, and declared "We will continue to fight for our dead friends."The Washington crowd was well into the tens of thousands. A vast crowd also rallied in New York City and large marches unfolded in Boston, Chicago, Houston, Minneapolis and scores of other cities. More than 20,000 rallied in Parkland near the school.___1:35 p.m.Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators at student-led anti-gun rallies held across the United States on Saturday were joined by counterparts the world over.In Paris, France about 100 demonstrators rallied near the Eiffel Tower in solidarity with the American "March for Our Lives" events.Caitlin Waters, co-organizer of the Paris event, said it\'s important for Americans overseas to let Washington know that they want more gun control. Similar rallies were planned in New Zealand, Japan and other countries around the world.In the United States, rallies stretched from sea to shining sea, with people marching in huge cities like Los Angeles and New York City as well as in smaller ones like Boise, Idaho and Omaha, Nebraska.___1 p.m.Prominent civil rights leader U.S. Rep. John Lewis says that the student-led, anti-gun protests occurring across the United States remind him of the early days of the civil rights era."I think it\'s amazing," Lewis said in an interview with The Associated Press. "They will be the leaders of the 21st century."Lewis joined the "March for Our Lives" protest in Atlanta, Georgia, one of several anti-gun rallies being held across the U.S. on Saturday in response to last month\'s Florida school shooting and other mass shootings.The Democrat also implored his Republican colleagues in Congress to "come to the right side" and to pass meaningful gun-control legislation.Lewis wore a button with a large red letter "F\'\' on it, proudly displaying the grade he said he has received from the NRA. Lewis said hundreds of Democratic members of the House were wearing them today.___12:35 p.m.Tens of thousands gathered at a "March for Our Lives" rally in New York City on Saturday held a moment of silence to honor 17 people killed during a school shooting in Florida just last month.Sam Hendler, a 16-year-old student from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, was at the rally to read the victims\' names.Another MSD student, Meghan Bonner, told the demonstrators that she wasn\'t surprised when she learned the identity of the shooter because it was obvious something was wrong with him."There was so much more that could have been done to prevent this," she said, fighting back tears. "I want to see change."The rally in midtown Manhattan is one of several being held across the United States on Saturday in response to gun violence.____11:55 a.m.The mayor of Houston, Texas told thousands of demonstrators at a "March for Our Lives" rally that adults have a responsibility to protect all children.Mayor Sylvester Turner spoke at the Tranquillity Park event Saturday morning, one of several anti-gun rallies being held across the U.S. on Saturday in response to last month\'s school shooting in Florida and other mass shootings."We have a responsibility for those of us as adults, we have a responsibility to stand up and protect our children," said Turner.Turner also chanted with the crowd "Now is the time" to "do the right thing."___11:15 a.m.Students chanted "enough is enough" and held up signs with slogans like "our ballots will stop bullets" at a rally in Parkland, Florida, where 17 people were killed in a school shooting last month.More than 20,000 people filled the park near Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School for the "March for Our Lives" rally Saturday morning.Others from the area traveled to Washington, D.C., where the main "March for Our Lives" event is being held. New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft let over 100 people, including families of victims of the Parkland shooting, use the team\'s charter plane for the trip.Team spokesman Stacey James says astronaut Mark Kelly reached out to Kraft for the favor."It\'s a hard thing to say no to, especially involving these victims," James said.___10:40 a.m.More than 20,000 people are expected at the "March for Our Lives" rally nearest the Florida school where last month\'s deadly shooting occurred.Police presence was heavy early Saturday at a park near Marjory Stoneman Douglas High as organizers set up and demonstrators streamed in.Eighteen-year-old Sabrine Brismeur and 17-year-old Eden Kinlock came from schools 20 miles away to pass out water.Kinlock said that may seem "like a small thing but it helps in the bigger picture."___10:35 a.m.The White House is applauding "the many courageous young Americans exercising their First Amendment rights" at gun control marches in Washington and in cities around the nation.White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters says "keeping our children safe is a top priority" of President Donald Trump and points to his calls on Congress to pass legislation related to expanded background checks and school safety.Trump is at his Florida home for the weekend. His motorcade took him to his West Palm Beach golf club on Saturday morning as hundreds of thousands of people were preparing for marches after the deadly mass shooting in Parkland, Florida.The president has ordered the Justice Department to ban bump stock devices that enable guns to fire like automatic weapons.___9:10 a.m.Dozens of protesters are rallying outside the U.S. Embassy in London in solidarity with the "March for Our Lives" protest against gun violence.Students, families with children and other protesters raised placards reading "Protect kids not guns," \'\'Never again," and "Enough is enough" Saturday outside the new embassy building in south London.Amnesty International U.K.\'s director Kate Allen referred to the 1996 school killings at Dunblane Primary School in Scotland, in which 16 students and a teacher were killed.She said: "After our own school shooting at Dunblane, new gun ownership laws were introduced in Britain and that\'s exactly what\'s needed in the United States, where gun deaths are a national tragedy."Hundreds of marches are planned in U.S. cities and dozens of locations abroad.___1 a.m.With thousands of demonstrators gathering in Washington, organizers of the March for Our Lives rally say the country has reached a historic emotional tipping point on gun violence.They predict a half-million demonstrators Saturday near the U.S. Capitol building for a several-hour rally. That would match last year\'s women\'s march and make it one of the largest Washington protests since the Vietnam War era.A poll conducted by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research shows that 69 percent of respondents and half of Republicans now favor stronger gun control laws.Activists are looking to channel the energy of this youth-led initiative into the midterm congressional elections this fall with elements like on-site voter registration booths.__This story has been changed to correct that Jack Thorne was at a march in Atlanta, not Savannah, Georgia and the spelling of Tranquillity Park in Houston, Texas.
WASHINGTON  Standing before vast crowds from Washington to Los Angeles to Parkland, Fla., the speakers  nearly all of them students, some still in elementary school  delivered an anguished and defiant message: They are done hiding from gun violence, and will stop at nothing to get politicians to finally prevent it.The students, as they seized the nations attention on Saturday with raised fists and tear-streaked faces, vowed that their grief about school shootings and their frustration with adults inaction would power a new generation of political activism.If they continue to ignore us, to only pretend to listen, then we will take action where it counts, Delaney Tarr, a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, where a gunman killed 17 people last month, told tens of thousands rallying in Washington. We will take action every day in every way until they simply cannot ignore us any more.For many of the young people, the Washington rally, called March for Our Lives, was their first act of protest and the beginning of a political awakening. But that awakening may be a rude one  lawmakers in Congress have largely disregarded their pleas for action on television and social media in the five weeks since the Parkland shooting.That reality helped drive the Parkland survivors in Washington, as they led a crowd that filled blocks of Pennsylvania Avenue between the White House and Capitol Hill. Thousands more rallied at about 800 sibling marches around the country and abroad, where students, like those in the capital, made eloquent calls for gun control and pledged to exercise their newfound political power in the midterm elections this fall.Aerial video captured seas of people  in front of Trump International Hotel in New York; in a central square in Tokyo; along the streets of Boston; at a rally in downtown Fort Worth, Tex.; and crammed into a park less than a mile from Stoneman Douglas High.Delivered in soaring speeches, emotional chants and hand-painted signs, the protesters messages offered angry rebukes to the National Rifle Association and politicians who have left gun laws largely intact for decades. A sign in Washington declared Graduations, not funerals! while another in New York said I should be learning, not protesting. Crowds in Chicago chanted Fear has no place in our schools as they marched.Celebrities, including Lin-Manuel Miranda, the Hamilton star, and the pop singers Ariana Grande and Miley Cyrus, performed in Washington, where politicians and adult activists were largely sidelined in favor of the fresh-faced students offering stories of fear and frustration, but also hope for change.The most powerful, and impassioned, moments came from the surviving students of the Parkland shooting, who declared themselves angry, impatient and determined to stop the slaughter.Today, we march, Ms. Tarr said. We fight. We roar. We prepare our signs. We raise them high. We know what we want, we know how to get it and we are not waiting any more.An 11-year-old girl from Virginia, Naomi Wadler, captivated her audience as she declared Never again! on behalf of black women and girls who have been the victims of gun violence.Calls like Naomis stood in stark contrast to action on Capitol Hill and at the White House in the hours before the rallies. President Trump signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill that took no significant new steps on gun control: It did nothing to expand background checks, impose additional limits on assault weapons, require a higher age for rifle purchases or curb the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines.The spending legislation, which was viewed as the last opportunity this year for Congress to enact major new gun restrictions before the midterm elections in November, included only some school safety measures and modest improvements to the background check system.Organizers at national gun control groups, who provided logistical support and public relations advice as the students planned the Washington rally, said they believed that the students would not become disillusioned by the lack of immediate action in Congress. They noted that rallies took place in 390 of the countrys 435 congressional districts.The mass shooting generation is nearing voting age, said John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety, a national group that advocates tougher gun laws. They know the midterms are six months away, and they plan to make sure that they vote and they get others to register to vote. They are absolutely poised to turn this moment into a movement.Gun rights organizations largely stayed silent on Saturday, following vigorous efforts since the Parkland shooting to squash any movement toward significant gun control legislation. A spokesman for the N.R.A. declined repeated requests for comment.On the eve of the march, Colion Noir, a host on NRATV, an online video channel produced by the gun group, lashed out at the Parkland students, saying that no one would know your names if someone with a weapon had stopped the gunman at their school.These kids ought to be marching against their own hypocritical belief structures, he said in the video, adding: The only reason weve ever heard of them is because the guns didnt come soon enough.Small counterprotests took place in a few cities. In Salt Lake City, several hundred people gathered near a high school, some carrying signs with messages like AR-15s EMPOWER the people. Brandon McKee, who wore a pistol on his belt, brought his daughter, Kendall, 11, who held a sign that said Criminals love gun control.I believe its their goal to unarm America, and thats why were here today, Mr. McKee said of the Washington marchers. In Boston, about 20 protesters favoring gun control confronted a small clutch of Second Amendment supporters in front of the State House. The two sides quickly got into a shouting match.The pro-gun protests were swamped in size and enthusiasm by those marching for gun control, many of whom traveled for many hours to attend the rallies in cities across the country. Sebastian Jennings, 18, said he spent 36 hours taking a bus to Washington from western Arkansas. Tour buses lined the streets.Security was tight in Washington, where military trucks and guards blocked almost every intersection near the rally amid a huge police presence, and in other cities where marches and rallies forced the closing of major roads.In towns like Dahlonega, Ga., smaller rallies sought to demonstrate a desire for new gun restrictions even in rural, Republican-leaning communities where gun ownership is common and support for the Second Amendment is strong.Were going to be the generation that takes down the gun lobby, Marisa Pyle, 20, said through a red megaphone to a group of several hundred people gathered in front of the Dahlonega Gold Museum.Around the world, Americans living abroad gathered to honor those who have died in school shootings and to echo the call for gun control.Protesters in Rome jammed the sidewalk across from the American Embassy, next to the upscale Via Veneto, raising their voice in chants  Hey hey, ho ho, the N.R.A. has got to go, and waving signs with messages like A gun is not fun and Am I next? many made by high school students at an international school.About 150 to 200 people in Berlin gathered in solidarity in front of the Brandenburg Gate, just steps from the American Embassy. Many carried hand-painted signs, among them: Arms should be for hugging, Bullets arent school supplies and Waffeln statt Waffen (Waffles instead of weapons).One of the largest rallies outside Washington was at a Florida park not far from Stoneman Douglas High School. During that event, 17 students from the school silently took the stage to represent their friends who had been killed.Anthony Montalto, the brother of Gina Rose Montalto, one of those killed, held a sign that said: My sister could not make it here today. Im here for her.Turn this moment into a movement, Sari Kaufman, a sophomore at Stoneman Douglas, implored the sea of students, parents and teachers. She urged her classmates to vote out of office politicians who receive money from the N.R.A. They think were all talk and no action.But the largest rally, by far, was in Washington, where stage risers and giant television monitors were set up in the shadow of the Capitol  the focus of much of the anger from students throughout the day.One protester carried a sign that said If the opposite of pro is con, then the opposite of progress is Congress.Most Republican and Democratic members of Congress had already left the city to return to their home districts for spring break. Mr. Trump spent Saturday afternoon in Florida, at the Trump International Golf Club, less than an hour north of Parkland. A White House spokeswoman said in a statement, We applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their First Amendment rights today.City officials had prepared for the biggest march since about a half-million women gathered on the day after Mr. Trumps inauguration, declaring a new political movement aimed at resisting the president and his policies.On Saturday, officials with Metro, the regions subway system, said more than 207,000 rides had been taken on the system by 1 p.m., about half of the number by that time during the Womens March.A team of crowd science researchers led by G. Keith Still of Manchester Metropolitan University in England estimated that about 180,000 people attended the rally. They examined photographs, video and satellite imagery to estimate the crowd density in different areas of the demonstration. The number is less than half of the 470,000 that Dr. Still estimated had attended the Womens March in Washington in 2017.Even so, the streets of Washington were packed on Saturday. Teenagers climbed on each others shoulders to reach the bare limbs of trees, where they climbed higher. And each student who spoke drew a cheer that matched, and even eclipsed, the applause given to the musical performers.Edna Chavez, 17, a high school senior from Los Angeles, said she had lost her brother to gun violence: He was in high school when he passed away. It was a day like any other day. Sunset down on South Central. You hear pops, thinking theyre fireworks.Ricardo was his name. Can you all say it with me? she asked. The crowd said his name over and over again, as Ms. Chavez smiled through tears.Naomi Wadler, the 11-year-old student, introduced herself with a soft hi and said she represented the black women who have been victims of gun violence.People have said that I am too young to have these thoughts on my own, she said. People have said that I am a tool of some nameless adult. Its not true. My friends and I might still be 11, and we might still be in elementary school, but we know.She added, And we know that we have seven short years until we, too, have the right to vote.
