The Philippines will start building a marine base next month on its northernmost uninhabited island, near Taiwan, to boost defence arrangements and discourage poachers from its fishing grounds, a military spokesman said on Thursday.
Chinese state media will be getting more propaganda now that the Communist Party has announced it will be in direct control of broadcasters and the regulators of everything from movies and TV to books and radio programs.
What Trump doesn’t know can hurt us — and help China.
President Trump said he will impose tariffs on about $60 billion worth of Chinese imports.
U.S. President Donald Trump often tweets from his iPhone about pressuring China to address its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States. But a closer look at the Apple smartphone reveals how the headline figure is distorted.
This week’s newsletter asks: Where is integration working in Australia, where is it failing? What do you see in your daily life that signals where the country’s multicultural effort is heading?
The Chinese government vowed Thursday to take "all necessary measures" to defend the country's interests if President Donald Trump targets it for allegedly stealing American technology or pressuring U.S. companies to hand it over.
China is preparing a range of responses to planned U.S. tariffs and will stand up to protectionism, but still hopes for dialogue, Beijing's ambassador to the World Trade Organization (WTO) said on Thursday.
China is preparing a range of responses to planned U.S. tariffs and will stand up to protectionism, but still hopes for dialogue, Beijing's ambassador to the World Trade Organization (WTO) said on Thursday.
City Football Group, which owns Premier League leaders Manchester City, is looking to add to its stable of soccer clubs and is especially keen on acquisitions in China, according to its chief commercial officer, Tom Glick.
The 700-pound sea lion blinked in the sun, sniffed the sea air and then lazily shifted to the edge of the truck bed and plopped onto the beach below.
The Latest on U.S.-China trade (all times local):
Global stock markets fell Thursday as investors braced for trade conflict between economic heavyweights U.S. and China. Beijing said it was prepared to defend its interests as the administration of President Donald Trump prepared to announce tarif...
U.S. President Donald Trump lit a slow-burning fuse on Thursday to launch long-promised anti-China tariffs, but his actions appeared to be more of a warning shot than the start of a full-blown trade war with Beijing.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
By alienating allies, the United States could undermine the potential for collective action among countries nursing shared grievances with China.
Primed for economic combat, President Donald Trump set in motion tariffs on as much as $60 billion in Chinese imports to the U.S. on Thursday and accused the Chinese of high-tech thievery, picking a fight that could push the global heavyweights in...
The rumblings of a global trade war sent shivers through stock and currency markets on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump announced long-promised tariffs on Chinese goods and China retaliated with a pledge to fight to the end any such war.
Shares of U.S. steel and aluminium companies were hammered on Thursday as the United States said it would exempt more countries from a tariff on metals imports that has been promoted as invigorating industry.
A brewing trade war between China and the United States sent markets reeling across Asia on Friday, and Europe looked ready to follow suit.
The European Union, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, South Korea, Canada and Mexico will get initial exemptions from looming steel and aluminum tariffs from the Trump administration. President Donald Trump authorized the exemptions late Thursday nigh...
Senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi will visit South Africa this week in the first foreign visit by a top official since China's government reshuffle, the foreign ministry said on Thursday, offering details on a new role for the veteran envoy.

Asian stock markets slumped Friday after Beijing responded to the Trump administration's tariff hikes by saying it may order higher import duties on a range of U.S. goods, ratcheting up fears of a trade war.
BMW will not mass produce electric cars until 2020 because its current technology is not profitable enough to scale up for volume production, the chief executive said on Thursday.
In the dead of night last month, two tanker ships pulled alongside each other in the East China Sea. One was a North Korean vessel, the other was the Belize-flagged Wan Heng 11.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:
Saudi Arabia has international partners it can work with if the United States walks away from a potential deal on nuclear power technology over concerns about nuclear proliferation, Khalid al-Falih, the kingdom's energy minister, said in an interv...
Chile argued in The Hague on Thursday that it had no obligation to negotiate access to the Pacific Ocean with Bolivia, saying the matter had been settled by a peace treaty more than a decade ago.
The European Union and the U.S. seem to have averted a trade war for now, after the administration of President Donald Trump said Thursday it was ready to exempt the 28-country bloc from tariffs on steel and aluminum.
French media giant Vivendi is selling its stake in Ubisoft for 2 billion euros (1.75 billion pounds) to investors including Chinese tech titan Tencent, ending a potential takeover battle for the French video games maker.
In a shift in strategy, the White House may impose import quotas to prevent too much foreign metal from flooding into the United States.
In a story March 23 about a budget bill in Congress, The Associated Press erroneously reported that the bill would give $73 million to the Chesapeake Bay Foundation. The money would go to the Chesapeake Bay's program, not the foundation.
Olympic figure skating champions Aliona Savchenko and Bruno Massot of Germany set a world record as they claimed their first world title as a pair with a flawless program packed with daring and grace on Thursday.
Spring has already arrived for many parts of the United States.
For Aleksander Doba, pitting himself against the wide-open sea — storms, sunstroke, monotony, hunger and loneliness — is a way to feel alive in old age.
Young and old share their junior life saving experiences, from early morning swims to deepwater board races — and for one nipper, a bit of misery. 
The Cherngs want to build a culture on trust. ‘We must respect and care for each other. We must push and stretch each other.’
Highlights at the annual fair includes Bulgari’s claimant to the title of world’s thinnest mechanical watch and lots of bejeweled timepieces.
In some of the world’s most extreme and dangerous environments she hunts for organisms that live in conditions like those on the red planet.
What may seem like a benign park only two hours from L.A. became the landscape for a high-endurance detective operation to find a missing hiker.
