
SHANGHAI   China National Machinery Industry Corp, known as Sinomach, has signed a contract to build a 5.35 billion yuan (603.5 million) railway in western Iran, adding to a wave of Chinese investment in the country.Sinomach will handle the engineering, procurement and construction work for the 410 km (255 mile) railway connecting the Iranian cities of Tehran, Hamedan and Sanandaj, the company said on its website on Monday.China has pumped billions of dollars into projects in Iran since nuclear sanctions against the country were lifted in 2015, giving its firms an advantage over European firms still struggling to find banks to fund their plans.China has been particularly involved in rail projects in the country, reflecting its Belt and Road initiative that aims to improve global transport and trade connectivity.State-owned China Railway Engineering Corp is building a 415 km (260 mile) high-speed north-south rail line between Tehran and Isfahan via Qom, while China Railway Construction Corp in January said one of its units had won a 3.53 billion yuan contract to build a railway between Kermanshah and Khosravi.(Reporting by Brenda Goh in SHANGHAI and Chen Aizhu in BEIJING; editing by Richard Pullin)
BEIJING   China is consolidating film, news and publishing regulation under the powerful Communist Party publicity department, strengthening Beijing\'s grip over content as the country looks to bolster its "soft power" domestically and overseas.The media shake-up, reported by Reuters on Wednesday and confirmed by the official Xinhua news agency, signals tighter media control amid a broad crackdown on news, online content and film that goes against Party values under President Xi Jinping.The shift also comes as China looks to merge ministries and create new regulators overseeing matters from banking to food safety in the biggest government shake-up in years.The reorganization would mean the publicity department would play a "special and important role in propaganda ideology and cultural entertainment", said a notice seen by Reuters from the ruling Party\'s Central Committee dated March 19.Xinhua published the notice on Wednesday.The body will take on powers over film, news and publishing, previously held by the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, which was dissolved earlier this month as part of the wider reshuffle."Audiences should expect to see more \'positive energy\' movies from now on," said Xu Juan, an analyst with Huatai Securities, referring to patriotic films like "Wolf Warrior 2" and "Operation Red Sea", that have broken box office records.The Communist Party is increasingly leveraging cultural products such as movies, rap music and even video games to promote "socialist values", an important modernizing push to make sure it avoids falling out of touch with youth.This has also seen a major tightening over online content from ramped up censorship of microblogs, culls on live-streaming platforms and regulators criticizing some of the country\'s top internet firms over content.Industry insiders said putting the media regulator directly under the publicity department would increase already heavy-handed censorship. Last year, a sweeping crackdown on internet content spooked filmmakers, bloggers and media professionals."Based on the current political situation, control will be heading for more tightening up," Fan Popo, a gay activist and film director, told Reuters.In addition, China has also approved the creation of new broadcaster called "Voice of China", which will consolidate several existing state TV and radio stations including China Central Television, China Global Television Network, China National Radio and China Radio International.The central government notice said that the newly created broadcaster, which will report directly to the publicity department, will "guide hot social issues, boost multimedia integration and development, strengthen international communication, and tell good China stories".(Reporting by Pei Li and Christian Shepherd; Editing by Nick Macfie)
TAIPEI, Taiwan   A senior U.S. diplomat said at an event in Taipei on Wednesday that the United States wishes to "bolster Taiwan\'s ability to defend its democracy" after President Donald Trump signed a new law promoting official exchanges between the two sides that has drawn protests from Beijing."We wish to strengthen our ties with the Taiwan people and to bolster Taiwan\'s ability to defend its democracy," said State Department official Alex Wong. "Our commitment to these goals has never been stronger."Speaking at a dinner with the American Chamber of Commerce, Wong was joined by Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen, who expressed gratitude for Trump\'s signing of the new Taiwan Travel Act and also noted the president\'s approval last year of a $1.4 billion arms sale to the island."The announcement of a major arms sale last year within the first five months of President Trump\'s administration showcased the United States\' unwavering commitment to Taiwan\'s continued safety and security," Tsai said.Taiwan\'s defense minister earlier announced that China\'s sole operating aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, had been spotted entering the Taiwan Strait separating the sides on Tuesday.The defense minister, Yen Teh-fa, told a legislative hearing that Taiwan\'s armed forces were monitoring the situation but declined to give further details. The 60,000-ton craft commissioned in 2012 has been conducting military operations in the East China Sea in recent days, Yen said.The Liaoning has previously transited the heavily trafficked 160 kilometer (100-mile) -wide Taiwan Strait.Wong\'s visit to Taiwan drew new criticism on Wednesday from China, which claims the self-ruled island as its own and has sought to isolate it diplomatically.China has already lodged a protest over the new Taiwan Travel Act, saying it violates U.S. commitments not to restore formal exchanges severed when Washington switched diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing in 1979.The new law, signed by Trump last Friday, allows unrestricted travel by U.S. officials to meet with members of Taiwan\'s government and for Taiwanese officials to visit the U.S. under "respectful conditions," during which they are allowed to meet with their counterparts, including those from the departments of state and defense.China urges the U.S. to hold to previous undertakings, cease "any kind of official exchanges and interactions with Taiwan, and properly deal with the Taiwan-related issue with caution so as to avoid severe damage to the China-U.S. relations and peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait," Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a regularly scheduled briefing.Wong\'s formal title is deputy assistant secretary for East Asian and Pacific affairs. His appearance at the event Wednesday and the signing of the law come as China is ratcheting up diplomatic and economic pressure on Tsai in response to her refusal to endorse Beijing\'s "One-China" principle under which Taiwan is considered a part of China.On Tuesday, Chinese President Xi Jinping warned that any attempt to separate any part of China from the nation would be "doomed to failure," a message implicitly directed at Taiwan and the U.S. Xi said China would continue to seek peaceful unification with the island, from which it separated amid civil war in 1949, although China has refused to rule out using force to bring Taiwan under its control.___Wang reported from Beijing.___This story has been corrected to show that the name of the legislation is Taiwan Travel Act instead of Taiwan Travel Law.

SHANGHAI   U.S. President Donald Trump often tweets from his iPhone about pressuring China to address its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States. But a closer look at the Apple smartphone reveals how the headline figure is distorted.The big trade imbalance - at the heart of a potential trade war, with Trump expected to impose tariffs on Chinese imports this week - exists in large part because of electrical goods and tech, the biggest U.S. import item from China.Apple Inc\'s iPhone, however, illustrates how a big portion of that imbalance is due to imports of American-branded products - many of which use global suppliers for parts but are put together in China and shipped around the world.Take a look at the iPhone X. IHS Markit estimates its components cost a total of $370.25. Of that, $110 goes to Samsung Electronics in South Korea for supplying displays. Another $44.45 goes to Japan\'s Toshiba Corp and South Korea\'s SK Hynix for memory chips.Other suppliers from Taiwan, the United States and Europe also take their portion, while assembly, done by contract manufacturers in China like Foxconn, represents only an estimated 3 to 6 percent of the manufacturing cost.Current trade statistics, however, count most of the manufacturing cost in China\'s export numbers, which has prompted global bodies like the World Trade Organization to consider alternative calculations that include where value is added.The impact on export data of just the iPhone could be major.Apple shipped 61 million iPhones to the United States last year, data from researchers Counterpoint and IHS Markit show, spending $258 on average to make each iPhone 7 and 7 Plus.Using a rough calculation, that implies the iPhone 7 series added $15.7 billion to the U.S. trade deficit with China last year, about 4.4 percent of the total. That\'s also about 22 percent of the $70 billion in cell phones and household goods the U.S. imported from China."With an iPhone, where China is just the final assembler, most of the value (contributed by China) is just the labor rather than the components themselves," said John Wu, an economic analyst with a U.S.-based think tank, the Information & Innovation Foundation.Louis Kuijs, head of Asia economics research at Oxford Economics, notes that U.S. companies\' using global supply chains to manufacture products in China means other economies would be caught in the crossfire of a trade war."That is an important reason why U.S.-China trade friction will cause \'collateral damage,\' especially in other Asian economies," he said, adding that in value added terms, the U.S. trade deficit with China was only $239 billion last year, 36 percent lower than the headline number.For its part, Apple has responded to Trump\'s concerns with a pledge to bring some suppliers to the United States. It said in January it planned to pay $55 billion to U.S. suppliers this year.Graphic: Manufacturing the iPhone X http://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/rngs/USA-TRADE-CHINA/010061872L2/iphone-cost.jpgDESIGNED IN CALIFORNIAOver the last decade, Apple shipped 373 million iPhones, worth $101 billion by manufacturing value, in the United States, according to researcher StrategyAnalytics.The iPhone\'s contribution to U.S. trade deficits is almost certain to have grown sharply alongside higher retail prices and shipments.But the manufacturing value does not include the intellectual property value Apple adds through engineering and design work done in its headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., as well as margins taken by distributors.The iPhone X has a manufacturing cost of about $400, an $800 wholesale cost, and a $1,200 retail unsubsidized cost, according to analysts.Siri, Apple\'s "digital assistant," reflects the challenge of knowing exactly where the value of an iPhone comes from - even if it\'s put together in China. If users ask Siri where she is from, the response is: "Like it says on the box... I was designed by Apple in California."The closely intertwined manufacturing ecosystem has led to warnings that a trade war would be painful for all sides.For a graphic on U.S. imports from China click http://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/rngs/US-CHINA-TRADE/0100617Y2K6/us-china-trade.jpgForty-five U.S. trade associations representing some of the largest U.S. companies urged the president on Sunday not to impose tariffs on China, warning it would be "particularly harmful" to the U.S. economy and consumers.Retailers and shoemakers, including Wal-Mart Inc and Nike Inc, also sounded the alarm on Monday over concerns the plans would result in higher consumer prices.A 10 percent tariff levied on Chinese electronics imports would slow the growth of U.S. output by $163 billion over the next 10 years, and a 25 percent tariff would slow output by $332 billion, according to the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation.Kuijs wrote that both sides would likely show restraint. All-out economic war, he added, "would cause major economic damage globally."(Reporting by Adam Jourdan; Additional reporting by Cate Cadell in BEIJING and Stephen Nellis in SAN FRANCISCO; Editing by Miyoung Kim and Gerry Doyle)
WASHINGTON   The Trump administration will decide by the end of April which countries will be spared from steep taxes on steel and aluminum imports.U.S. Trade Rep. Robert Lighthizer told the House Ways and Means Committee Wednesday that some countries won\'t have to pay the tariffs, which take effect Friday, while they try to negotiate exemptions.President Donald Trump has imposed tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum, saying that relying on foreign metals jeopardizes U.S. national security. He exempted Canada and Mexico from the tariffs, provided they reach an agreement to revamp the North American Free Trade Agreement.Lighthizer said the administration is also negotiating tariff exemptions with the European Union, South Korea, Argentina and Australia and expects to begin talks with Brazil.The EU has threatened to respond to the metals tariffs with taxes on a range of U.S. products including jeans, motorcycles and bourbon.EU Trade Commissioner Cecili Malmstrom met with U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. The two issued a joint statement Wednesday saying the U.S. and EU have agreed to work on a resolution to the trade dispute "as rapidly as possible."The Commerce Department is separately reviewing companies\' request for relief from the tariffs if, for example, the steel or aluminum they need is not produced in the United States.The deadline for the metals tariffs comes just as the administration prepares to slap big tariffs and impose investment restrictions on China for strong-arming U.S. companies into handing over technology. It says theft of intellectual property is one reason for the United States\' massive trade deficit with China in goods: $375 billion last year.Members of Congress are worried that the aggressive action will invite a counterpunch from China and that U.S. farmers are especially vulnerable to retaliatory tariffs on American soybeans.Lighthizer promised to strike back if China targets U.S. farmers."We can\'t have a $375 billion trade deficit and not do anything to defend ourselves," Lighthizer said.
WASHINGTON   The United States on Wednesday imposed sanctions on 15 South Sudanese oil operators that it said were important sources of cash for the government, an action aimed at increasing pressure on President Salva Kiir to end the country\'s conflict and humanitarian crisis.The companies and government bodies would in future require special licenses to do business in the United States, the State Department said."The South Sudanese Government, and corrupt official actors, use this revenue to purchase weapons and fund irregular militias that undermine the peace, security, and stability of South Sudan," the department said in a statement.The groups on the list "are involved in activities that are contrary to the foreign policy interests of the United States," according to a related Department of Commerce document published on Wednesday.The South Sudanese government was not immediately available to comment.Washington has already placed sanctions on South Sudanese military and political figures, and in January imposed an arms embargo to halt the flow of weapons into the country, signaling that it had lost patience with South Sudan\'s warring factions for ignoring ceasefires.Last year, the South Sudanese government said it planned to more than double oil production to 290,000 barrels per day (bpd) in fiscal 2017/2018.It is the most oil-dependent country in the world, with oil accounting for almost all of its exports and around 60 percent of gross domestic product, according to the World Bank.The Department of Commerce\'s so-called Entity List does not freeze assets but requires that U.S. and foreign companies doing business with those on the list first obtain a license.The Commerce Department placed the South Sudan Ministry of Mining, the South Sudan Ministry of Petroleum, and state oil firm Nile Petroleum and associated companies on its list.The list includes Dar Petroleum Operating Company, an oil and gas consortium led by China National Petroleum Corp and Malaysia\'s state-run oil and gas firm Petronas, the two largest oil firms operating in South Sudan.The restrictions also cover oil distributor Nyakek and Sons; Greater Pioneer Operating; Juba Petrotech Technical Services; Nigeria\'s Oranto Petroleum, and Sudd Petroleum Operating.South Sudan has been wrecked by civil war since 2013 when troops loyal to Kiir clashed with those loyal to then-Vice President Riek Machar.Since then, the conflict has claimed tens of thousands of lives, slashed oil production and driven about a third of the population of 12 million from their homes.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton and Timothy Gardner; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Rosalba O\'Brien)
BEIJING   China will actively take steps to safeguard its interests as well as those of its industries, Vice Commerce Minister Wang Shouwen said, in light of what he described as acts of trade protectionism by the United States.The U.S. decision to launch trade investigations is a unilateral act of protectionism, the Chinese commerce ministry said in a statement on Wednesday, citing a speech by Wang in New Delhi.President Donald Trump is expected to unveil up to $60 billion (42.63 billion) in new tariffs on Chinese imports by Friday, targeting technology, telecommunications and intellectual property, two officials briefed on the matter said Monday.The tariffs will be imposed under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act, following an intellectual property probe that began in August last year."Taking trade restrictive measures will not only impede normal international trade order but also cause serious damage to the multilateral trade system," Wang said at a two-day World Trade Organization ministerial meeting that ended on Tuesday.Trump has accused the Chinese government of forcing U.S. companies to transfer their intellectual property to China as a cost of doing business there.Voicing hopes that Beijing and the United States could avoid a trade war, Premier Li Keqiang said on Tuesday that China would open its economy further, so that foreign and Chinese firms can compete on an equal footing.But one day later, Chinese tabloid Global Times said in an editorial that U.S. subsidies for its soybean farmers have given them an unfair competitive advantage in selling to China and strong restrictive measures need to be taken to prevent dumping.While the widely-read paper is run by the ruling Communist Party\'s People\'s Daily, its stance does not necessarily equate with Chinese government policy."The (U.S.) president is willing to negotiate and he wants to put all the chips on the table, probably put some people on their heels," Reince Priebus, a former Trump White House chief of staff, told Reuters in an interview in Hong Kong.NOT SCARED OF A TRADE WARSpeaking at a daily news briefing, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying reiterated that China would hit back if needed."China does not want to fight a trade war with anyone. But if anyone forces us to fight one, we will neither be scared nor hide," Hua said."If, in the end, the United States takes actions that harm China\'s interests then China will have to take resolute and necessary steps to respond to protect our legitimate interests."Expectations of tariffs on some Chinese goods have alarmed dozens of U.S. business groups, who said they would raise prices for consumers, kill jobs and drive down financial markets.Fears of a global trade war have risen after Trump imposed hefty import tariffs on steel and aluminium earlier this month under Section 232 of the 1962 U.S. Trade Expansion Act, which allows safeguards based on "national security".The move provoked strong protests from U.S. allies, including South Korea, Japan and Canada."(Trump\'s) not going to dial back from his default position, which is a reciprocal tax, but I think one by one, based on the conversations each of these countries is going to have with him, I think he\'d be willing to negotiate," Priebus said.In a "field guide" on a potential China-U.S. trade war, S&P Global Ratings said any retaliation by major U.S. trading partners will derail a synchronised global economic recovery.In any case, China\'s trade openness and its reliance on trade for GDP growth both peaked over decade ago, and China\'s growth story is increasingly a domestic one, the ratings agency said.S&P has an A+ rating on China, on par with ratings from Moody\'s Investors Service and Fitch.Fitch Ratings on Wednesday affirmed its China rating, but said heightened trade tensions with the United States pose a downside risk to the ratings agency\'s baseline outlook.(Reporting by Stella Qiu and Ryan Woo; Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in BEIJING and James Pomfret in HONG KONG; Editing by Sam Holmes and Kim Coghill)
BRASILIA   Brazilian President Michel Temer said on Wednesday the United States would suspend steel and aluminium tariffs on the South American nation pending negotiations, but the office of the U.S. Trade Representative would not confirm that claim.Temer made the announcement during an economic conference in Brasilia, saying that "the new tariffs ... will not be applied while we are talking on the issue."A spokeswoman for the trade representative declined to confirm any decisions. "The president will make the final decisions on country exemptions," she said.An exemption would require a presidential proclamation, which has not been made for any nations but Canada and Mexico.Brazil is the No. 2 supplier of steel to the United States."We have to treat our relations with the United States with great care, because they are our biggest trade partner after China," Temer said last week at the World Economic Forum on Latin America.But he added that if there was no "friendly" solution, Brazil would join other countries in filing a complaint to the World Trade Organization.(Reporting by Marcela Ayres, Leonardo Goy and Lisandra Paraguassu in Brasilia and David Chance in Washington; Writing by Brad Brooks; Editing by Richard Chang)

Less than two days before the Trump administration plans to impose steep tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, its chief trade representative said Wednesday that several of the nations top trading partners were in line for potential exemptions.The trade official, Robert Lighthizer, said at a hearing of the House Ways and Means Committee that the administration was talking with Australia, Argentina and the European Union about excluding them from the 25 percent tariff on imported steel and 10 percent charge on aluminum.He added that there were plans to talk with Brazil about possible exemptions, and raised the possibility that South Korea could be excluded as the United States continues to hold talks with Seoul over a bilateral trade agreement.Mr. Lighthizer said he favored sparing those countries from the tariffs while talks continue, though he said that decision would be up to the president. Mr. Lighthizer said he expected the conversations over exclusions to conclude by the end of April.The administration has already temporarily shielded Canada and Mexico from the tariffs during the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.Mr. Lighthizers testimony came a day after the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, was warned by global economic leaders at a meeting in Buenos Aires that the United States was risking a trade war by initiating the tariffs. President Trump declared earlier in the month that trade wars are good, and easy to win.But Mr. Lighthizer struck a different note on Wednesday. Nobody wins from a trade war, he said. We certainly dont want a trade war. On the other hand, you have to ask yourself, can we go on with an $800 (and growing) billion trade deficit?If Mr. Trump decides to exclude Brazil and South Korea from the tariffs, and allows Canada and Mexico to remain exempt, he will have given a reprieve to the four largest foreign suppliers of steel to the United States, together accounting for half of all steel imports. That could make the tariffs less helpful to domestic steel mills.It raises the question of, if you exempt all of them, whos left? said William Reinsch, a trade expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. It will reduce the value of the relief to the domestic industry.Foreign governments have continued to engage in high-level talks with the administration to make the case for exclusion from the tariffs. Cecilia Malmstrom, the European Unions commissioner for trade, said in a statement that she had met with the United States commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, this week to talk about steel and aluminum trade with a view to identifying mutually acceptable outcomes as rapidly as possible.Mr. Trump spoke this week with President Emmanuel Macron of France about how Europe and the United States might come together over tariffs, a White House official said in a statement.Administration officials have said that the tariffs are intended to counter an influx of cheap metals from China that are entering the United States through other countries. The Commerce Department has cited national security as the premise for the tariffs, saying that the imports are crippling domestic producers and, by extension, the nations industrial base.Asked about reports that the administration was preparing a new set of tariffs aimed at China, Mr. Lighthizer said Mr. Trump would make a decision in the very near future. Mr. Lighthizer has been investigating Chinas trade practices since August, including allegations of theft of intellectual property.Mr. Lighthizer indicated that the administration was specifically concerned about Chinese policies that compel American companies to share technology when they make investments in China.There are certain technology products that are under assault, he said. You have to give consideration to whether or not you would put tariffs on those products.But he noted that any tariffs would take into account the economic impact of raising the cost of consumer goods. You would create an algorithm that would maximize the pressure on China and minimize the pressure on U.S. consumers, he said.
SYDNEY   Business confidence among Asian companies rose in the first quarter to the highest level in seven years, a Thomson Reuters/INSEAD survey showed, as a fresh surge by the Chinese economy offset concerns about rising trade barriers.The Thomson Reuters/INSEAD Asian Business Sentiment Index <RACSI>, representing the six-month outlook of 67 firms, advanced one notch to 79 for the January-March quarter compared with three months before.A reading above 50 indicates a positive outlook."The improvement is not dramatic but with a historical perspective this is a good reading," said Antonio Fatas, a Singapore-based economics professor at global business school INSEAD.Thailand, the Philippines and Malaysia saw robust jumps in sentiment, showing that many countries in Asia continue to benefit from accelerating global growth. In particular, China has seen exports soar, up 45 percent in February to mark their fastest growth in three years.(PDF of survey - http://tmsnrt.rs/2HMxYCl)(Graphic: Business sentiment index - http://tmsnrt.rs/2G9OZJs)(Graphic: Biggest perceived risks - http://tmsnrt.rs/2G77AGg)"China ... has escaped the fear of a crisis that started back in 2016 and that\'s why you see strong confidence. Imbalances persist but there is no real threat of a crisis over the short term," said Fatas.The subindex for Thailand surged to 100 from 85 and the Philippines saw a climb to 83 from 70 while sentiment in Malaysia improved five notches to 75."The tourism and export sector expansion will help drive growth (in Thailand) this year," said Rattham Somboonchareon, a planning manager at survey respondent Thai Airways, adding that government spending was also a key driver of growth.Australia\'s subindex dropped to 80 from 92, although the figure is relatively high when compared with its historical average of 69.While the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have raised their global growth forecasts for this year due to strong trade, consumer spending, and investment in many major economies, intensifying rhetoric in favor of protectionism has become a major concern.U.S. President Donald Trump has announced import tariffs on steel and aluminum, and is expected to consider additional tariffs targeted specifically at China. He has also repeatedly said the U.S. free-trade deal with South Korea is "unfair" and has threatened to scrap it altogether on multiple occasions.That has battered sentiment in South Korea, with the country\'s subindex plunging to 50 from 83."There is a sense among Korean businesses that Trump will continue to beaggressiveagainst their country," said Fatas.Singapore\'s subindex declined to 75 from 79. The country\'s exports took a surprise dip in February as tech product shipments continued to retreat from the hot pace of recent months.Japan, where consumer spending numbers have been subdued, recorded its lowest reading in a year, at 67 compared to the fourth-quarter\'s 70. India also experienced a decline in sentiment, falling to 72 from 79.The index for sentiment in China increased to 88 from 83, but the number of respondents was low at four companies.Increasing trade friction and higher interest rates were cited as the biggest concerns in the Thomson Reuters/INSEAD survey.By industry, the technology, construction, energy and metals sectors expressed concern about trade friction, showed the survey, which was conducted March 2-16.Sectors which identified rising interest rates as a risk included the energy, real estate, retail and technology sectors. The energy sector also showed concern about the potential for a sudden asset price correction.The auto sector matched its highest subindex reading posted seven years ago, while the retail and leisure sector recorded its best ever reading. Healthcare had its highest score in two years.Note: Companies surveyed can change from quarter to quarter.(Reporting by Byron Kaye in SYDNEY; Additional reporting by Chayut Setboonsarng in BANGKOK and Liz Lee in KUALA LUMPUR; Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman)
SEOUL   South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Wednesday a three-way summit with North Korea and the United States is possible and that talks should aim for an end to the nuclear threat on the Korean peninsula.Moon is planning a meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un next month after a flurry of diplomatic activity in Asia, Europe and the United States. U.S. President Donald Trump has also said he would meet Kim by the end of May."A North Korea-U.S. summit would be a historic event in itself following an inter-Korean summit," Moon said at the presidential Blue House in Seoul after a preparatory meeting for the inter-Korean summit."Depending on the location, it could be even more dramatic. And depending on progress, it may lead to a three-way summit between the South, North and the United States," he said.Seoul officials are considering the border truce village of Panmunjom, where Moon and Kim are set for a one-day meeting, as the venue for talks between not only Kim and Moon but also a possible three-way meeting.A Blue House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Moon did not specifically refer to Panmunjom or that a three-way summit had been discussed with Washington before the president spoke.The rush of recent diplomatic contacts began in the lead-up to the Winter Olympics in South Korea last month and helped ease tensions on the Korean peninsula caused by North Korea\'s pursuit of its nuclear and missile programs in defiance of United Nations Security Council sanctions.South Korea wants to hold high-level talks with North Korea on March 29 to discuss a date and agenda for the inter-Korean summit and make a formal request to the North on Thursday, Moon\'s presidential office said.North and South Korean officials should be able to agree on when the summit between Moon and Kim will take place once the officials from both sides meet this month, the Blue House official said.\'CLEAR GOAL\'Moon said the series of summits should aim for a "complete end" to the nuclear and peace issues on the Korean peninsula.He said he has a "clear goal and vision", which is for the establishment of a lasting peace to replace the ceasefire signed at the end of the 1950-53 Korean war. It also includes the normalization of North Korea-U.S. relations, the development of inter-Korean ties, and economic cooperation involving Pyongyang and Washington, he said.However, the United States must also add its guarantee in order for peace to come about, Moon said."Whether the two Koreas live together or separately, we have to make it in a way that they prosper together and in peace, without interfering or causing damage to each other," Moon said.The Blue House official said this could mean stopping propaganda broadcasts at the border that are commonly blasted from both sides over loudspeakers. The official could not say whether "interference" also referred to criticism over widely recognized human rights violations in North Korea.South Korea and the United States will resume joint military drills next month, although the exercises are expected to overlap with the summit between the two Koreas.Seoul and Washington delayed the annual drills until after the Winter Olympics, helping to foster conditions for a restart of such talks.North Korea regularly denounces the drills as preparation for war but a South Korean special envoy has said Kim understood that the allies must continue their "routine" exercises. That exchange has not been confirmed.The North\'s official KCNA news agency said on Wednesday a "dramatic atmosphere for reconciliation" had been created in cross-border ties and there had also been a sign of change in North Korea-U.S. relations.That was "thanks to the proactive measure and peace-loving proposal" made by Pyongyang, not Trump\'s campaign to put maximum pressure on the country, KCNA said in a commentary.The Blue House official also said earlier on Wednesday  South Korea was in discussions with China and Japan for a three-way summit in Tokyo in early May. The three countries have not held such a meeting since November 2015, with relations soured by historical and territorial tensions.(Reporting by Hyonhee Shin and Christine Kim; Editing by Paul Tait)
SYDNEY   A Canadian woman told an Australian court on Wednesday that her only role in a plot to smuggle cocaine worth $16 million into Sydney was to make the luxury cruise ship operation look like a vacation.Three Canadians have pleaded guilty in the New South Wales state District Court to smuggling 95 kilograms (209 pounds) of the drug in their luggage in a seven-week cruise in 2016 from Britain  to Ireland, the United States, Bermuda, Colombia, Panama, Ecuador, Peru, Chile then Australia,Melina Roberge, 24, appeared in the court for a sentencing hearing on Wednesday.A date for her to be sentenced will be set next week. She was to stand trial last month, before she changed her plea to guilty."I was meant to just be there and look like I was on holiday and look like a cover for everyone else," Roberge told the court.Roberge told the court she initially refused to take part when her unnamed "sugar daddy" asked her to carry drugs on the cruise. But she later agreed when told she could enjoy a free vacation while helping the group."Other people would be there to look after the drugs," she said.She began to cry while telling the court she made the decision without thinking about the consequences. As a remand prisoner in a Sydney jail, she had met women who struggle with drug addictions."I do not want to be part of that. I want to be able to help them," Roberge said."I am really sorry. I should have thought about the consequences and not what I would have gotten for it," she added.Prosecutor Tom Muir told her she had been aware of what she was doing."She was not doing it for debt," Muir told the court. "It\'s for the lifestyle she wants to enjoy."In a letter to the court, Roberge wrote that she had been motivated by a desire to "take photos of myself in exotic locations for \'likes\' and attention, and hurt so many people in the process."She posted photographs of herself in New York\'s Time Square and other locations throughout the drug run.Her lawyer Avni Djemal said Roberge played no part in dealing the drugs and had been young and naive.Police with sniffer dogs found 35 kilograms (77 pounds) of cocaine in the cabin she shared with Isabelle Lagace on Aug. 28, 2016, when the MS Sea Princess, operated by California-based Princess Cruises, berthed in Sydney.Another 60 kilograms (132 pounds) of the drug were found in Andre Tamine\'s cabin. It is not clear from what port the drug was collected.The U.S. Department of Homelands Security and the Canada Border Services Agency identified the three as high-risk passengers among the 1,800 on board. The haul was a record for cocaine smuggled in luggage through an Australian air or sea port.Lagace, 29, was sentenced in November to 7 years and 6 months in prison backdated to her arrest. She will likely be deported after serving a non-parole period of 4 year and 6 months. She told the court she took part to settle a debt in Canada.Tamine, 65, will be sentenced in October.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A new Communist takeover, Boris Johnsons Hitler comment, and Mark Zuckerbergs highly anticipated moment. Heres what you need to know:  Party power.China issued a blueprint for shaking up its bureaucracy that vastly increases the Communist Partys control over government and culture.The plan empowers party panels to shape policy on reform, cybersecurity, economics, finance and foreign affairs. And it merges state-run radio and television broadcasters into a Voice of China conglomerate answering to the partys Department of Propaganda, which will also control film, books and magazines.This week, Shanghai briefly detained and then returned a Chinese-born Australian, John Hugh, who has been sharply critical of the partys efforts to influence Australian politics._____ A three-way summit meeting?President Moon Jae-in of South Korea floated the possibility of joining the planned meeting of North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump in May, which he said would be a momentous event in world history.Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim are planning to meet in late April at Panmunjom, the truce village that straddles the Demilitarized Zone between the two Koreas.Some South Korean news outlets interpreted Mr. Moons remarks as indicating that he wanted the summit meeting to be held there, too  affording his government great optics._____ He blew himself up as the police closed in.Mark Anthony Conditt, 23, a suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the city of Austin, Tex., died early this morning by detonating an explosive in his vehicle.In a blog about his political views created for a college class, he described himself as a conservative and argued against same-sex marriage and sex offender registries and in favor of the death penalty. Heres what we know about him._____ Tensions between Britain and Russia hit a new peak.Boris Johnson, the top British diplomat, told Parliament that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, would use the World Cup this summer as a propaganda tool, much as Hitler did with the 1936 Olympic Games.In Moscow, the Russian Foreign Ministry summoned foreign diplomats to suggest Britain itself may have been responsible for poisoning a former Russian double agent and his daughter with a nerve agent. (The British ambassador did not attend.)_____ In the U.S., Republican lawmakers are among those faulting President Trump for congratulating Vladimir Putin on winning election to a fourth six-year term to lead Russia.The immediate leak of their conversation signals the depth of frustration inside the White House. Only a small circle would know of the content of the leaders conversation on Tuesday or could have revealed the existence of a briefing card cautioning Mr. Trump: DO NOT CONGRATULATE.An analyst left Fox News with a searing farewell, accusing it of becoming a mere propaganda machine for a destructive and ethically ruinous administration._____ We also made mistakes, theres more to do, and we need to step up and do it.Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, above with Sheryl Sandberg in 2012, responded publicly (via Facebook) to the growing crisis over reports that outside companies harvested data on millions of users.He said the company would crack down on outside apps and bolster privacy. Facebook has lost about $50 billion in market value since the reports were published, and a growing numbers of users are considering deleting their accounts.On The Daily, we talk to one of our reporters who broke the story, and discuss how a key data scientist at Cambridge Analytica became a whistleblower. The U.S. Federal Reserve  raised interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point. Under a new chairman, Jerome Powell, it signaled two more increases this year. Toyota suspended tests of self-driving vehicles on public roads so it could assess the situation after an autonomous Uber vehicle fatally struck a pedestrian on Sunday in Arizona. Shares of Crown Resorts slipped after James Packer, the Australian billionaire enmeshed in an Israeli corruption scandal, resigned as director of that huge casino company to deal with mental health issues. This years Turing Award, often called the Nobel Prize of computing, went to Dave Patterson and John Hennessy for their visionary influence on computer chip design. Our technology reporter in Mumbai explains how cheap mobile data is changing India, and why WhatsApp is indispensable. U.S. stocks were up. Heres a snapshot of global markets. In Afghanistan, a suicide bomber killed at least 31 people among a crowd in Kabul celebrating Nowruz, the Persian New Year. [The New York Times] The ailing president of Myanmar, Htin Kyaw, resigned. Parliament is expected to rapidly choose a successor who will allow Aung San Suu Kyi, officially a state counselor, to continue to exert power. [The Guardian] A U.S. State Department official said American policy would continue to ensure that Taiwans people can continue along their chosen path, free from coercion, shrugging off a threat from China. [The New York Times] Tributes are pouring in for Kak Channthy, 38, the lead singer of the Cambodian Space Project, who was killed Tuesday in a traffic accident in Phnom Penh. (Watch one of the bands performances.) [The Phnom Penh Post] Space junk is a problem. A team of Australian scientists wants to use powerful ground-based lasers to shoot it away. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Thinking of going to Brazil? Youll need this vaccination. Heres how to protect your data on Facebook. Recipe of the day: Brighten up the usual salmon dinner with a sauce of capers, scallions, parsley and garlic. Thoughtful feathers: An scientist in Sydney implored people across the country to mail her fallen feathers so she could map bird movements as the countrys wetlands disappear. The response, she says, has been really exciting. Nepal wants to remove 200,000 pounds of trekkers garbage in a campaign aimed at saving the glory of the Everest region. (Theyre going to need more yaks.) And  15 years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times reintroduces At War, a forum on global conflict that evolved from a renegade blog. The first essay is the tale of a U.S. Marine who led tanks into Baghdad.On this day in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Eisenstadt v. Baird that its unconstitutional for a state to deny unmarried people access to contraception.The court had ruled in 1965 that state bans on contraceptives for married couples violated their privacy rights. But a few states still restricted access for single people.Bill Baird, an activist, violated one such law in Massachusetts. He appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, which struck down the law.Justice William Brennan held that the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment because it discriminated between married and unmarried people.The case became an important precedent in subsequent landmark rulings by the Supreme Court, including its 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized abortion rights, and, more recently, the 2015 decision guaranteeing a right to same-sex marriage.A movie about Mr. Bairds case is in development. Above, Mr. Baird in 2012.Mr. Baird has continued working as an activist, but his legacy is complicated by what The Times described in 1993 as an unapologetic zealotry and a willingness to criticize even his ideologic allies. Planned Parenthood once called him an embarrassment.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
TOKYO   The U.S. dollar slipped on Thursday after the Federal Reserve did not signal a faster pace of rate hikes this year while worries about a coming announcement on tariffs from U.S. President Donald Trump dented Asian shares.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 0.1 percent, erasing earlier gains of up to 0.7 pct, which were led by  South Korea and Taiwan hitting six-week highs. Japan\'s Nikkei gained 0.4 percent.Wall Street stock indexes ended the day lower, with the S&P 500 losing 0.18 percent and the Nasdaq Composite 0.26 percent.The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday and forecast two more hikes for 2018 in its first policy meeting under Chairman Jerome Powell.Given that some investors had expected it to project three more rate hikes, the guidance was perceived by some as less hawkish than anticipated, a positive factor for risk assets in general, though analysts noted the Fed was upbeat on the economy overall.Fed policymakers notched up rate projections for 2019 and 2020 and also raised the estimated longer-term "neutral" interest rate a touch, suggesting the current tightening cycle could go on longer than previously thought."They also forecast three hikes next year and two more in 2020 and clearly revised up the growth forecast as well," said Norihiro Fujito, senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities."So the picture looks different when you look at longer-term projections. That explains the complicated reaction by markets. The prospects of continued rate hikes may cap shares," he added.The yield on two-year U.S. notes yield slipped back to 2.299 percent <US2YT=RR> from 9 1/2-year high of 2.366 percent hit on Wednesday while the 10-year yield dipped to 2.872 percent <US10YT=RR> after an initial spike to 2.936 percent.That pushed the U.S. dollar lower in the currency market, with the dollar index <=USD> testing this month\'s low after suffering its biggest fall in two months on Wednesday.The euro <EUR=> gained 0.2 percent to $1.2363, extending its recovery from a near three-week low of $1.2240 touched earlier in the week.The dollar shed 0.4 percent to 105.66 yen <JPY=>, turning down on the week to edge closer to its 16-month low of 105.24  on March 2.The British pound hit a 1 1/2-month high of $1.4171, building on Wednesday\'s one-percent gains.Strong UK wage data published on Wednesday cemented expectations that the Bank of England will likely signal a May rate hike later in the day at a monetary policy meeting.Bucking the trend, the Hong Kong dollar <HKD=D4> hit a 33-year low of 7.8469 per U.S. dollar, inching closer to the lower end of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority\'s targeted trading band of 7.75-7.85.But most market participants do not see this bout of weakness as a threat or attack on Hong Kong\'s dollar peg, unlike instances in the past.With the Fed meeting over, investors are watching Trump, who is due to sign a memo on imposing tariffs on Chinese imports at 1630 GMT on Thursday.Concerns about a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies have kept many investors on guard.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said on Wednesday the tariffs would target China\'s high-technology sector and could also include restrictions on Chinese investments in the United States.Investors worry such a move could trigger countermeasures by China, possibly causing a vicious cycle of escalating retaliation.Shares on China\'s exchanges were lower, the with Shanghai Composite Index slipping 0.8 percent to two-week lows."China\'s equity market is relatively domestic. We estimate that on average more than 80 percent of revenues are generated in China while only a marginal share comes from the U.S. Still, there would be first-order casualties if trade tensions escalated. In the front line would be firms with significant exposure to the US, mostly in the tech and consumersectors," wrote analysts at Societe Generale.In the energy market, oil prices stood near six-week highs and closed in on a 3-year peak set in late January, helped by a surprise decline in U.S. inventories, strong compliance on OPEC production cuts, and persistent concerns on the nuclear pact with Iran.U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures <CLc1> rose to as high as $65.74 per barrel <CLc1>, not far from its January peak of $66.66, having gained almost five percent so far this week.In contrast, copper fell to three-month low of $6,702 per tonne <CMCU3> the previous day before bouncing back to $6,817.(Reporting by Hideyuki Sano; Editing by Eric Meijer and Richard Borsuk)
(Reuters) - Global automakers are sharpening their focus on the electric car market, prompted by the success of Tesla Inc and rising demand for vehicles powered by cleaner technologies.Automakers investing in the rapidly growing electric market include:BMW AG - The Munich-based maker of BMW, Rolls-Royce and Mini vehicles plans to bring 25 electrified models to market by 2025 and will increase research and development spending to an all-time high of up to 7 billion euros ($8.6 billion) this year as part of the efforts.In February, the company and China's Great Wall Motor Co said they would jointly produce electric Mini vehicles in China. The venture could start production around 2021 or 2022.VOLKSWAGEN <VOWG_p.DE > - Europe's largest automaker has picked partners to provide battery cells and related technology worth around 20 billion euros ($25 billion) for its growing electric car program.The German carmaker in November also approved a 34 billion euro ($40 billion) spending plan.FORD MOTOR CO - The No. 2 U.S. automaker will significantly increase its planned investments in electric vehicles to $11 billion by 2022 and have 40 hybrid and fully electric vehicles in its lineup.DAIMLER AG - The luxury carmaker is investing 10 billion euros in electric and hybrid technology and is preparing to launch the EQ electric car. It aims for 100,000 annual electric car sales by 2020.GREAT WALL MOTOR CO LTD - The automaker aims to more than double its annual sales to 2 million vehicles by 2025, with roughly a third of those expected to be all-electric cars. It also plans to invest 20 billion yuan ($3.16 billion) on electric vehicle research and development by 2020.GENERAL MOTORS - The No. 1 U.S. automaker has promised investors it will produce profitable electric vehicles by 2021 and that 20 new battery electric and fuel cell vehicles will join its global lineup by 2023.TOYOTA MOTOR CORP - The carmaker has ramped up its electric vehicle development, pledging to add more than 10 EV models to its product lineup in the early 2020s after long touting a green-car strategy focusing mainly on hybrids and fuel cell vehicles. It has also partnered up with Panasonic Corp to develop EV batteries.HYUNDAI MOTOR CO - The South Korean carmaker and smaller affiliate Kia Motors Corp plan to release 38 green models using a variety of technologies, including electric, by 2025.BEIJING WKW AUTOMOTIVE PARTS CO LTD - Beijing WKW Automotive Parts said it would invest about 16 billion yuan in a new energy car project.AUDI - The luxury carmaker plans to launch 20 electrified models by 2025, more than half of which will be all-electric, in collaboration with VW's Porsche.($1 = 0.8155 euros)(Compiled by Sanjana Shivdas in Bengaluru; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila)
WASHINGTON   When Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross held up a can of Campbell\'s soup in a CNBC interview to make the case that the Trump administration\'s steel and aluminum tariffs were "no big deal," the canning industry begged to disagree  and they were hardly alone.President Donald Trump\'s strong-armed trade policies have set off an intense scramble among industry groups, companies and foreign countries seeking exemptions from tariffs of 25 percent on steel imports and 10 percent on imported aluminum. The push comes ahead of an upcoming round of new penalties expected to be slapped on China by week\'s end.The Can Manufacturers Institute, which represents 22,000 workers at manufacturers across the nation, estimates the steel and aluminum tariffs would harm their industry and consumers alike. The institute says there are 119 billion cans made in the U.S., meaning a 1 cent tariff would lead to a $1.1 billion tax on consumers and businesses."Secretary Ross has made cans a poster child to dispel concerns about the costs of tariffs," said Robert Budway, the institute\'s president. He said his organization was concerned Ross "is already predisposed to deny our petitions."Trump\'s one-two punch on trade has set in motion a deluge of requests to the Commerce Department for exclusions for certain steel and aluminum products. Foreign countries, meanwhile, complain the U.S. Trade Representative\'s office has not provided specific guidance on gaining exemptions before the steel and aluminum tariffs are implemented on Friday."Typically, the countries are determined before tariffs are announced," said Josh Zive, senior principal at the law firm Bracewell LLP. This time, countries don\'t know whether they will end up being targeted or exempted  "that\'s weird and no one knows what to make of it."The Trump administration, which has said steel and aluminum imports threaten U.S. national security, has already given Mexico and Canada a reprieve  provided they agree to a revamp of the North American Free Trade Agreement. The European Union, South Korea, Australia and Brazil are among the countries seeking the exemptions.Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, said tariffs are "sometimes necessary tools" to protect national security or fight unfair trade practices. But he said the administration\'s approach is producing "chaos, uncertainty, and an alienation of our closest allies."Emily Davis, a spokeswoman for U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, said the U.S "is engaged in discussions with several countries to determine if means other than tariffs can be arranged to address our national security concerns."Companies that buy imported steel and aluminum can request tariff relief from the Commerce Department, especially if they rely on types of imported steel and aluminum that aren\'t available from domestic U.S. producers.Expect a deluge: Steel and aluminum producers have 30 days to object to the exemption requests. Commerce expects 4,500 requests for relief and 1,500 objections  and it is supposed to reach decisions in 90 days.Commerce has said it intends to reach decisions on a company-by-company basis, not by making across-the-board exemptions for individual steel and aluminum products. That decision has created anxieties that certain companies could get tariff relief while others would be forced to pay tariffs on the same product  perhaps because in the time between the two requests domestic U.S. production has ramped up to fill shortages."The big thing is, it\'s arbitrary," said Mary Lovely of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "The government is becoming the matchmaker between the purchaser and the supplier.""It\'s a real question to me whether they understand the magnitude of the requests they are going to get," Zive said of Commerce. "How they\'re going to get through them in 90 days is difficult to understand."Industry officials said other aspects of the exemption process will burden companies. Manufacturers are unclear whether companies will qualify for refunds if they end up getting exemptions after they\'ve begun paying the tariffs. And since Trump set no timeline for ending the tariffs, the companies will need to reapply for the exemptions on an annual basis.Companies, meanwhile, have been trying to beat the tariffs by stocking up on imports. Steel imports rose 15 percent last year and another 17 percent in January.The steel and aluminum tariffs may only be the opening salvo.Administration officials said Trump is expected to announce $60 billion in tariffs on Chinese imports by Friday on a wide array of consumer goods, from apparel to electronics, and even on imported parts for products made in the U.S.Ross, appearing before a House budget panel on Tuesday, faced questions about the trade moves, with lawmakers warning the tariffs could lead to retaliation from foreign countries and wreck economic havoc for consumers."I worry that now we\'re engaged in a trade war which is further going to alienate us from our adversaries," said Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, R-N.J., chairman of the powerful House Appropriations Committee.Rep. Derek Kilmer, D-Wash., noted that the decision to exclude aluminum and steel producers on a company-by-company basis  rather than by individual products  could create the possibility that some companies will gain a huge advantage over their competitors if they win exemptions.Ross vowed that "the process will be open and transparent" and Commerce was working to "minimize the amount of inconvenience that any of the affected parties will suffer as a result of the process. We\'re gearing up to be fast, to be fair and to be practical.___
NEW YORK   Sure. Take that quiz about which hair-metal band is your spirit animal. Share a few snaps of your toddler at the beach and watch the likes pile up. Comment on that pointed political opinion from the classmate you haven\'t seen since the Reagan administration.Just remember that your familiar, comforting online neighborhood  the people you care about most and those you only kinda like  exists entirely on a corporate planet that\'s endlessly ravenous to know more about you and yours.On a day when our virtual friends wrung their virtual hands about whether to leave Facebook, a thoroughly 21st-century conundrum was hammered home: When your community is a big business, and when a company\'s biggest business is your community, things can get very messy.You saw that all day Tuesday as users watched the saga of Cambridge Analytica unfold and contemplated whether the chance that they had been manipulated again  that their data might have been used to influence an election  was, finally, reason enough to bid Facebook goodbye.Not an easy choice. After all, how would Mom see photos of the kids?"Part of me wants Facebook to go down over the Cambridge Analytica scandal but the other part of me has no other way to know when any of my friends or family have a birthday," Chicago Tribune humorist Rex Huppke tweeted Tuesday  and cross-posted on Facebook.Facebook, which began as a social network for college students and the academic community, has experienced exodus before, albeit usually more gradually.Young people have edged away from it in favor of other platforms such as Snapchat, WhatsApp and Instagram (the latter two are owned by Facebook now), and many maintain a presence but use it rarely. Internationally, while Facebook remains widespread, insurgent social networks built around messaging, such as Line in Japan and Thailand, WeChat in China and KakaoTalk in South Korea, have supplanted it.But as the granddaddy of the major social networks, Facebook boasts more than 2.2 billion users  nearly 30 percent of the world\'s population, a community vastly larger than any nation. That\'s an irresistible target for advertisers and, it turns out, for people who want to do some sketchy things with data and even influence elections.And for users, anyplace brimming with lots and lots of interesting people is often  just by virtue of that fact  the place to be.But when you really think about it, what, precisely, IS that place?Most of us, as end users, interact with Facebook as the global equivalent of a neighborhood or a town square  Mayberry meets Bedford Falls from "It\'s A Wonderful Life," but with the miles that separate so many of us compressed to mere inches.Friends stop by to chat and catch up. They show us some photos, catch up with our lives and move on. Sometimes you\'ll overhear neighbors talking about something and you\'ll wander over to chime in. You know some people better than others, some barely at all. Some are looking for approval. Some want to pick a fight. Some just want to play a game on the green and move on.Trouble is, what in the real world is legit social interaction with few strings attached becomes, in the virtual one, an intricate and heavily mediated transaction.Or, put another way, the community itself is authentic, but the town square is rigged with booby traps and there\'s no mayor or police patrolling on our behalf."When we go to, say, a party, the analog parameters that define the social space in which we\'re celebrating the community are visible. You know who\'s there and what the outcomes of your interactions are," says John Drew, who teaches digital media at Adelphi University in Garden City, New York.Facebook, he says, "created a system that\'s inherently social  your friends are there posting  but while you\'re doing that posting and looking at other people\'s posts, they have been building an advertising empire," he says. "The people who are throwing the party  that\'s Facebook. And they\'re controlling the rules."On Tuesday, angst was popping up all over as people discussed the virtues and drawbacks of leaving Facebooktown forever.One common response to people who said they might go: Don\'t  how will I see your kids growing up? Other would-be exiters wondered how they\'d keep track of THEIR kids if they quit. Still others expressed the perennial wish of Facebook users when confronted with contentious debate: Can\'t we all just post nice things and stay away from politics?And finally, the payoff question: Will Facebook even LET me quit? (Yes, but they don\'t make it particularly easy.)The doubt is entirely understandable.This is  in America, at least  an era where the pillars of community have crumbled. Polls show Americans trust institutions less and less. Membership in unions and civic organizations  longtime community glue  is also sharply down, and job transfers and increased mobility can cleave in-person friendships like never before.Is it any wonder, then, that so many people covet the bonds of community  even virtual community  and the reinforcement that accompanies them? Is it a surprise that people struggle about whether to give up this fixture of their lives that, yes, features some unpleasantly aggressive tentacles but also serves up the miniature dopamine rushes of approval from those we care about? Isn\'t that, in essence, one of community\'s key functions?"One of the reasons Facebook is so popular is that it feels to people like it\'s free. They have no sense that they\'re giving anything up, or what they\'re giving up," says George Loewenstein, a behavioral economist and the Herbert A. Simon professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University."Generally, people detest the feeling of being a sucker. They detest the idea that someone else has taken advantage of them. But so far, it\'s too intangible to people," he says. "If we had a beer and someone took it away from us, we\'d be very upset. But if it\'s information, people get a whole lot less upset."We\'re only a quarter century into the internet, really. We may not yet be wired for the conditional communities that something like Facebook offers  a community like no other in history.The notion of being handed a multimedia pass to all your friends, wherever they might be, for free, holds immense appeal  even if "free" turns out to mean "we\'re watching you and making money and maybe pulling some of your psychological chains to our own ends."The question that faces all of us who contemplate our Facebook departures comes down to this in the end: Is rejecting this particular corporation important enough to you to reject the community that it serves up? How much are your "friends" worth?Also: Def Leppard is your spirit animal. Carry on.___Ted Anthony writes about American culture for The Associated Press. Follow him on Twitter at @anthonyted.
 A spring snowstorm is sweeping through the Northeast, the fourth noreaster of the month. A foot or so of snow is expected from the suburbs of Philadelphia to parts of New York City to coastal Connecticut and Long Island, with significant snow from Washington to Boston. Nearly 5,000 flights have been canceled and La Guardia Airport suspended all flights. New York City schools will be open tomorrow (they were closed today). Boston schools will be closed. More than 35,000 homes in New Jersey have lost power.Nearly seven inches of snow have fallen in parts of New York City, and there is more to come.An inch an hour until midnight or 1 a.m., Jay Engle, a meteorologist at the National Weather Services New York office, said around 8 p.m.That could bring snowfall totals in the city to a foot or so, before the storm draws to a close in the wee hours of Thursday. It would be the biggest snowfall in New York City in springtime, breaking the record of 10 inches set on April 3, 1915.The morning commute could be sloppy, with possible scattered snow showers.In Washington, the snow had slowed by Wednesday evening.Less than half a foot of snow was recorded in most of New Jersey, though the forecast predicted up to several inches could fall there overnight. In rural Pennsylvania, snow totals have exceeded a foot in some places.In Boston, it wasnt snowing yet on Wednesday evening when Mayor Martin J. Walsh canceled classes at Boston public schools for Thursday.Forecasters have predicted up to nine inches of snow in Boston by Thursday morning, but their models have not agreed, and many have been revising their predictions downward and now say the city could receive as few as four inches.The National Service in Boston counseled patience over Twitter, assuring the snow would come overnight. Annie Correal and Katharine Q. Seelye New York Citys subways are running, but some lines have switched to local service. Commuter railroads, including Metro-North, New Jersey Transit and Long Island Rail Road, are expected to run on regular schedules Thursday with residual delays.Amtrak will continue to run on a limited schedule. New Jersey Transit and PATH will not continue systemwide cross-honoring. New Jersey Transit bus service will resume service at 2 a.m.The storm hobbled airports, stranding passengers as they scrambled to find alternative options or lodging. Hundreds of incoming and outbound flights were canceled at every major airport in the Northeast.La Guardia Airport said it would reopen on Thursday, but called it a recovery day for airlines and advised passengers to check with their airlines before coming to the airport in the morning.Todays storm is the fourth serious snow to wallop the Northeast this month  the others were on March 2, March 7 and March 13.This is an odd occurrence in March  regionwide storms of this size typically develop only about once a year, said the director of the National Weather Service, Louis W. Uccellini.But every few years, storms do tend to come in bunches, Dr. Uccellini said. The episodic nature of these storms is not weird, he said. Its actually a characteristic of these storms.(Dr. Uccellini knows whereof he speaks. He wrote the book  Northeast Storms, Vols. 1 and 2 on the subject.)The culprit, he explained, is something called the North Atlantic Oscillation, which is related to airflow over this part of the planet. When the N.A.O. is positive  as it was from December to February  the air moves fast and storms do not have time to build up a lot of power.But in March, the N.A.O. went negative. That means the flow gets blocked. You get a trough that sits off northeast Canada, or between Canada and Greenland, and it tends to lock in cold air in the northeastern U.S., Dr. Uccellini said.And because the air over the North Atlantic, to the south and east of the Northeast, stays warm and moist, Dr. Uccellini said, that contrast between cold air over land and warm air over sea can be conducive to rapid cyclogenesis. That is a fancy way of saying, It makes big snowstorms.This is likely to be the last big snow of the season: The N.A.O. is predicted to go neutral-to-positive by the end of the week. Andy NewmanStanding in Central Park with a cluster of children around him, Matt Hoek pulled a list from his pocket: snow-covered bench, snow-covered taxicab, bus with chains, pine cone. He had the children  his two daughters, who are 2 and 5, and some of their friends from around their Upper West Side neighborhood  on a snow-day scavenger hunt.That was a big find for us  a person on a CitiBike, Mr. Hoek said as the group paused so one of the boys could climb a tree. We actually found one. (This was before CitiBike shut down for the day at 1 p.m.)Central Park was sparsely populated snow caked the lawns and sidewalks and stinging winds blew along Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir. Still, the runners, dog walkers and tourists held their ground.We dont see snow like this  its pretty impressive, Miguel Navo, visiting from Barcelona, said as he stood near the reservoir.Some of the dogs looked like they were being dragged, slinking down as the snow hit their faces. A Labrador retriever wore an annoyed expression as he stepped through the snow to tend to his business. But a scruffy black-haired dog named Holly pranced through the snow with a coat cinched around her torso and a pink ball in her mouth.Her owner, Caroline Koeppel, was similarly delighted. Its beautiful, she said, looking out at nearly empty expanse of the Great Lawn. My dog has the park to herself. She wished for enough snow to be able to cross-country ski through the park. Im in here no matter what, she said.Holly had started off the walk on the Upper East Side with a shoe for each paw, but by this point she was down to just two as she skittered around with her ball. There are no squirrels, Ms. Koeppel said. I think shes a little disappointed. Rick Rojas

