The U.S. military on Friday launched vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) F-35Bs from the deck of the USS Wasp amphibious carrier in the waters around Okinawa in its first show of stealth aircraft force at sea.
Once rejected by North Korea as "human scum," U.S. President Donald Trump's latest pick for national security adviser has called for regime change in North Korea, prompting worries in Asia ahead of a historic summit between Washington and Pyongyan...
A plan to extract natural gas in “Australia’s Galápagos” could bolster the economy, but the fishing and tourism industries say it’s not worth the risk.
Following are five big themes likely to dominate thinking of investors and traders in the coming week and the Reuters stories related to them.
Luis Suarez became the first player to score 50 goals for Uruguay on Friday when the Barcelona striker scored a penalty to set up a China Cup final meeting with Wales following a 2-0 win over Czech Republic.
A chaotic rollout of steel and aluminum tariffs, including a last-minute list of countries temporarily exempted from them, has left trade experts puzzled.
President Ronald Reagan once likened trade wars to the pie fights in old Hollywood comedies. One pie in the face leads to another. And then another.
Supply chains are so complicated, companies might not be able to base more production in America, as the administration wants.
Stocks around the world plunged Friday as investors feared that a trade conflict between the U.S. and China, the biggest economies in the world, would escalate. A second day of big losses pushed U.S. stocks to their worst week in two years.
Not since the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001, have key national security leaders so publicly raised the threat of armed confrontation if foreign adversaries do not meet America’s demands.
He had known for years that the Vietnam War would destroy him. In March 1968, it did.
Byron Walden, Saturday siren, seduces us into deep puzzle waters.
The state curriculum urges teachers to “counteract traditional gender roles,” and at one school, girls are encouraged to shout “No!” and boys run the play kitchen.
The Latest on student-led protests against gun violence (all times Eastern Daylight Time):
The young people, as they seized the nation’s attention, vowed that their grief about school shootings and their frustration with adults’ inaction would power a new generation of activism.
