Dozens of Chinese naval vessels are exercising this week with an aircraft carrier in a large show of force off Hainan island in the South China Sea, satellite images obtained by Reuters show.
Dozens of Chinese naval vessels are exercising this week with an aircraft carrier in a large show of force off Hainan island in the South China Sea, satellite images obtained by Reuters show.
Confronting Beijing over trade abuses is not without merit. But rejecting economic alliances opens the way to Chinese initiatives around the region.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met Chinese President Xi Jinping during a visit to China this week, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported on Wednesday. 
John Fisher, a 47-year-old Briton competing in the Volvo Ocean Race, was swept overboard in strong winds 1,400 miles west of Cape Horn.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un visited China from Sunday to Wednesday on an unofficial visit, China's state news agency Xinhua reported on Wednesday.
The Latest on a possible North Korean visit to China (all times local):
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's surprise visit to Beijing makes clear what has been easily forgotten amid the whirlwind of diplomatic developments in past months: China still plays a major role in efforts to end North Korea's nuclear program.
In an unexpected burst of diplomacy, North Korea’s leader may be playing the role of international statesman while courting an ally that was losing patience with his country.
The Latest on a visit by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to China (all times local):
Top Trump administration officials are asking China to cut tariffs on imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of financial services firms and buy more U.S.-made semiconductors in negotiations to avoid plans to slap tariffs on a host of Chi...
The meeting, Mr. Kim’s first with another head of state, added a new layer of complexity to the global diplomacy around North Korea’s nuclear program.
North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping sought to portray strong ties between the long-time allies despite a recent chill as both countries on Wednesday confirmed Kim's secret trip to Beijing this week.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has pledged to denuclearise and meet U.S. officials, China said on Wednesday after an historic meeting with President Xi Jinping, who promised China would uphold its friendship with its isolated neighbour.
Unions at South Korea's two-largest automakers, Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp., have blasted plans to revise a free trade deal with the United States, saying the amended deal will prevent local automakers from entering the fast-growing U.S...
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
A British Volvo Ocean Race crew member who fell overboard in the Southern Ocean is presumed lost at sea, organizers said on Tuesday.
Djibouti is in talks with French shipping company CMA CGM to develop a new container terminal at an initial cost of $660 million (&#163;465.9 million) as part of the tiny African country's bid to expand into a sea and air transport hub for the con...
A sailor in the Volvo Ocean Race is presumed lost at sea after going overboard in the harsh, remote Southern Ocean some 1,400 miles west of Cape Horn.
The United States’ new steel and aluminum tariffs are prompting trade barriers as foreign governments look to prevent a flood of cheap metals.
A dozen national Olympic committees have been given a quick look at Tokyo's venue preparations for the 2020 Summer Games.
There were in fact remarkable parallels between American and Soviet involvement in Vietnam.
High above downtown Hong Kong's bustling, traffic-clogged streets, a group of office workers was toiling away not on a corporate acquisition or a public share offering but on harvesting a bumper crop of lettuce atop one of the skyscrapers studding...
Appetite for “green gold” has grown so strong that neither organized crime nor tariffs are likely to slow its conquest.
When North Korea's leaders need to travel, they've got a train that's unlike any other.
Art dealers, collectors and gallery owners gather in Hong Kong for the annual Art Basel exhibition this week at a time when fairs are increasingly driving growth in the sector and collectors from across Asia are flocking to the financial hub.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
A top Emirati aviation official accused Qatar on Tuesday of allowing its military fighter jets to come dangerously close to a large airplane and a helicopter, allegations immediately denied by Doha amid an Arab boycott of the energy-rich Gulf nati...
Paro the furry seal cries softly while an elderly woman pets it. Pepper, a humanoid, waves while leading a group of senior citizens in exercises. The upright Tree guides a disabled man taking shaky steps, saying in a gentle feminine voice, &#8220;...
Paro the furry seal cries softly while an elderly woman pets it. Pepper, a humanoid, waves while leading a group of senior citizens in exercises. The upright Tree guides a disabled man taking shaky steps, saying in a gentle feminine voice, &#8220;...
Imagine you are applying to be the C.E.O. of Deutsche Bank now that it’s reportedly seeking a successor to John Cryan. What would you do first?
He helped link a lack of social connections to physiological damage. And while conducting his research he married a fellow neuroscientist.
Today in History
Known as the dragon fish in Chinese, the Asian arowana is one of the world’s priciest aquarium fish and a popular luxury item, especially in China.
