BEIJING   A look at recent developments in the South China Sea, where China is pitted against smaller neighbors in multiple disputes over islands, coral reefs and lagoons in waters crucial for global commerce and rich in fish and potential oil and gas reserves:___EDITOR\'S NOTE: This is a weekly look at the latest developments in the South China Sea, the location of several territorial conflicts that have raised tensions in the region.___CHINA SENDS BOMBERSChina\'s air force says it recently sent some of its most advanced fighters and bombers for "joint combat patrols" over the South China Sea.Spokesman for the People\'s Liberation Army Air Force Shen Jinke was quoted on Sunday as saying that the planes involved included H-6K long-range strategic bombers. The bombers are considered "standoff" weapons that carry the DH-20 land-attack cruise missile, giving it the ability to hit targets as far away as Australia.Russia and the U.S. are currently the only other countries able to launch cruise missiles from the air.Since entering service, the H-6K has flown multiple training missions over the western Pacific and patrols over the South China Sea.Shen said Su-35 fighter jets and other aircraft he did not identify also flew in the patrols. The Russian-made Su-35 has greatly enhanced China\'s ability to conduct operations at greater distances and its pilots have grown increasingly proficient through training under actual combat conditions, according to Shen\'s statement posted on the air force\'s official microblog.Shen also said the air force recently sent H-6K bombers and Russian-made S-30 fighters through the Miyako Strait north of Taiwan for combat training in the western Pacific.___CHINA PROTESTS US SHIPChina has protested to the U.S. over its sending of a guided missile destroyer into waters near Chinese-claimed territory, saying it dispatched two vessels of its own to warn the ship off.The USS Mustin "arbitrarily entered waters surrounding islands and reefs in the South China Sea," Defense Ministry spokesman Ren Guoqiang was quoted as saying on Friday by the official Xinhua News Agency.The incident constitutes a "serious political and military provocation," Ren was quoted as saying. Such actions "harm military relations between the two countries, causing close encounters between the countries\' air forces and navies, which could lead to misjudgment and even accidents," he said.The Pentagon generally declines to comment on such freedom of navigation operations, known as "FONOPs," aimed at asserting the U.S. military\'s right to sail, fly and operate anywhere that is legal under international law.The U.S. does not take a stance on sovereignty claims in the South China Sea, but has strongly criticized China\'s building of man-made islands equipped with airfields and other military infrastructure.___FRENCH FONOP REPORTA report says the French navy declined to either confirm or deny that one of its surveillance frigates conducted a freedom of navigation operation while transiting the South China Sea.The website Navy Recognition said Friday the Vendemiaire, home-ported in the French territory of New Caledonia, is on a two-month cruise in the area that has included a joint operation with the USS Murphy, an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer.It said that included the establishment of a data link and secure communications and the deployment of a joint visit, board, search and seizure team often used in anti-piracy or anti-smuggling operations.The French ship also make a visit to Brunei, where it conducted a joint search and rescue drill, helicopter operations and other maneuvers, the website said.China regularly criticized U.S. FONOPs but has remained largely quiet about similar missions by ships and aircraft from other countries.___PHILIPPINE -CHINA\'GOLDEN PERIOD\'Philippine Foreign Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano hailed a "golden period" in his country\'s relations with China despite differences over the South China Sea, amid discussions over possible joint development projects in the disputed waters.Cayetano made the remarks in Beijing on Wednesday after meeting with his counterpart Wang Yi, who said offshore oil and gas exploration were among issues discussed.China and the Philippines have long tussled over islands and reefs in the South China Sea and since taking office in 2013, Chinese President Xi Jinping has taken a hard line on issues of sovereignty.Kicking off his second five-year term on Tuesday, Xi declared in a fervently nationalistic address to the ceremonial legislature that China would never cede "one inch" of its territory.China rejected an international tribunal\'s 2016 ruling invalidating much of its claim to virtually the entire South China Sea in a case brought by the Philippines.Cayetano also said the Philippines\' China-friendly President Rodrigo Duterte will attend the Boao regional economic forum on China\'s South China Sea island province of Hainan next month. He said the Philippines looks forward to welcoming Xi for a state visit at a time to be determined.___Associated Press writer Yanan Wang contributed to this report.
MANILA   The territorial dispute with Beijing over the South China Sea remained a security challenge despite an improvement in bilateral ties, the Philippine defense chief said on Monday as he accepted three maritime surveillance planes from Japan.Delfin Lorenzana, in a speech at a naval base south of the capital Manila, said the three Japanese donated second-hand TC90 planes will definitely boost the navy\'s capability to gather intelligence in the disputed South China Sea."We must admit that much still has to be done to boost our military capability equipment in order to meet a number of persistent maritime security challenges," Lorenzana said, identifying territorial disputes with China, and other countries, over resource-rich areas in the South China Sea.China claims almost the entire South China Sea, where about $5 trillion worth of sea-borne goods pass every year. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have conflicting claims in the strategic waterway.Tensions between the Philippines and China over the disputed sea have eased since President Rodrigo Duterte came to power in July 2016 and improved relations with Beijing via Chinese trade and investments.Lorenzana said the Philippines was also concerned with piracy and the movement of armed insurgents in the Sulu Sea and other transnational crimes, including smuggling of illegal drugs and poaching into rich fishing grounds in territorial waters.Japan planned to lease five surveillance planes but decided last year to transfer without cost the aircraft after changes were made in Tokyo\'s self-defense forces law allowing donation of excess defense and military equipment to partner countries.Japan\'s vice minister for defense, Tatsuo Fukuda, said Tokyo was willing to help its allies improve its capabilities help secure the safety of international sea lanes and benefit not only the Philippines but the entire region.During the handover ceremony, Lorenzana and Fukuda watched the planes land at a naval base guarding the mouth of Manila Bay, hundreds of miles southeast of the disputed Scarborough Shoal now patrolled by Chinese coast guard ships.The navy said the surveillance planes have a range of 300 km (186 miles), twice the capability of its existing aircraft and could patrol into China\'s seven artificial islands in the Spratly, which had been converted into military bases.The navy said it has a budget of nearly 6 billion peso  ($114.65 million) to acquire two brand new long-range maritime patrol aircraft to enhance its intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) capability.(Reporting By Manuel Mogato; Editing by Michael Perry)
TAIPEI   Taiwan sent aircraft on Monday to shadow China air force fighter jets as they flew through the Bashi Channel to the south of the island, its defence ministry said, the latest such incident to add to tension between Taipei and Beijing.China sent an unspecified number of Xian H-6 bombers, Su-30 fighter jets and Y-8 transport aircraft over the waterway on their way to the West Pacific Ocean, the Taiwan ministry said.They were followed by Taiwan jets until the mainland aircraft returned to base, it said in a statement.Taiwan on March 21 sent ships and aircraft to shadow a Chinese aircraft carrier group that sailed through the narrow Taiwan Strait.Taiwan is one of China\'s most sensitive issues and a potential military flashpoint.The Chinese military movements come during a time of heightened tension between Beijing and the self-governed island and follows strong warnings by Chinese President Xi Jinping against Taiwan separatism.China claims Taiwan as its own and considers the island a breakaway province. Xi said last week Taiwan would face the "punishment of history" for any attempt at separatism.China\'s hostility towards Taiwan has grown since Tsai Ing-wen from the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party won presidential elections on the island in 2016.Meeting New Taipei City Mayor Eric Chu in Shanghai on Monday, the newly appointed head of China\'s policy-making Taiwan Affairs Office, Liu Jieyi, said China was clear in its opposition to Taiwan independence, Chinese state television said.China hopes both sides of the Taiwan Strait can work together for the peaceful development of relations and "jointly promote the process of the peaceful reunification of the motherland", Liu told Chu, state television added.The New Taipei City government said in a statement that Chu, from the China-friendly opposition Nationalist Party, told Liu they hoped for peaceful cooperation."Although the political situation has changed, what people hope for most is peace," said Chu, who Tsai defeated for the presidency two years ago.While China insists it has no hostile intent, its military exercises and patrols around Taiwan, and in the busy South China Sea waterway, have touched a nerve in the region and in the United States.U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Alex Wong angered Beijing during a recent visit to Taiwan by saying the U.S. commitment to the island had never been stronger.Beijing is already furious about a law signed two weeks ago by U.S. President Donald Trump that encourages the United States to send senior officials to Taiwan to meet counterparts and vice versa.(Reporting by Fabian Hamacher and Twinnie Siu; Writing by Christian Shepherd and Ben Blanchard; Editing by Robert Birsel)
CAVITE, Philippines   The Philippine military said Monday it will continue aerial patrols of a Chinese-held shoal near the South China Sea despite protests from Beijing over the flights, especially using Japanese-donated aircraft.When asked if the Philippine military will stop the surveillance of Scarborough Shoal following the protests from Beijing, Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said the flights will continue because the area is within the Philippines\' exclusive economic zone, giving the country internationally recognized sovereign rights."No, we will not. Those areas are within our EEZ. They\'re the ones who have no rights there," Lorenzana said.China raised concerns over the patrols, including one that used a Japanese-donated TC-90 plane, when Chinese and Philippine officials met in Manila last month to discuss their territorial disputes in the South China Sea, said a Philippine official who was involved in the meeting.The official spoke on condition of anonymity because of a lack of authority to discuss issues taken up during the closed-door meeting.Japanese defense officials turned over the last three of five TC-90 aircraft to the Philippine navy in a ceremony witnessed by Lorenzana and top navy commanders at a naval base in Cavite province south of Manila on Monday.The refurbished Beechcraft TC-90s, which can fly twice the distance that existing Philippine patrol aircraft can cover, will be used to respond to disasters and for patrols and surveillance, Lorenzana said in a speech in which he thanked the Japanese government.Japan initially leased the TC-90s to the Philippines but later transferred them as a grant after restrictions on Japanese donations of excess defense and military equipment to allies and other countries were eased, he said.Two of the aircraft were delivered in March last year and one was used by the Philippine navy for the first time in late January to patrol the Scarborough area, where it spotted nine Chinese vessels, including four Chinese coast guard ships, and four Philippine fishing boats, the military\'s Northern Luzon Command reported at the time.Earlier in January, a U.S. guided missile destroyer sailed near Scarborough to assert freedom of navigation, sparking protests from China. Beijing said then that it would take "necessary measures" to protect its sovereignty after the USS Hopper sailed within 12 nautical miles of Scarborough without China\'s permission.China took control of Scarborough in 2012 after a tense standoff with Philippine ships. The tiny, uninhabited reef is about 200 kilometers (120 miles) west of the main northern Philippine island of Luzon, and about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) southeast of the Chinese coast.Japan and the Philippines, which are locked in separate territorial disputes with China, signed a pact in March 2016 that allowed Japan to transfer defense equipment and technology to the Philippines in the latest sign of blossoming security ties.___Associated Press writer Jim Gomez in Manila contributed to this report.
GENEVA   China called on World Trade Organization members on Monday to unite to prevent the United States "wrecking" the WTO, and it urged them to oppose U.S. President Donald Trump\'s tariffs targeting China\'s alleged theft of intellectual property.Trump\'s trade policy, labeled "medieval" by former WTO head Pascal Lamy, has inflamed international opinion this year.While a U.S. veto on new WTO judges jams up legal disputes in Geneva, Trump has slapped tariffs on solar panels, cited national security to restrict steel and aluminum imports, and demanded that China slash $100 billion from its U.S. trade surplus.China\'s WTO ambassador Zhang Xiangchen said the latest U.S. move, linked to alleged theft of U.S. innovation, was fundamentally incompatible with the WTO."In the open sea, if the boat capsizes, no one is safe from drowning. We shouldnt stay put watching someone wrecking the boat. The WTO is under siege and all of us should lock arms to defend it," he told a WTO meeting.Washington needed WTO authorization for the intellectual property tariffs, he said."WTO members should jointly... lock this beast back into the cage of the WTO rules," Zhang said.A U.S. diplomat at the meeting said Chinese technology transfer policies cost U.S. businesses billions of dollars annually, and noted that the United States had filed a WTO complaint accusing China of allowing patent theft and discriminating against foreign technology holders.China is alone in facing that allegation, but it is not alone in its opposition to Trump\'s worldwide tariffs on steel and aluminum, and on Monday it became the first country to launch a WTO claim of compensation for lost metals exports.STEEL BARThe U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum imports have drawn widespread criticism and sparked fears that metals markets elsewhere will be oversupplied after the United States slams its door.The EU served notice on Monday that it could also introduce protective steel tariffs to stop the supply surge, although its study of the situation could take nine months.It and four other U.S. allies have temporary exemptions from the tariffs. South Korea became the first to get an indefinite waiver after agreeing to cut steel exports by 30 percent of the past three years\' average.That worries steelmakers in Japan, which is not exempt."We are concerned that the new tariffs are being used by the U.S. as a card for wider trade negotiation deals," said Japan Iron and Steel Federation Chairman Kosei Shindo.The steel tariffs are based on a claim to "national security", a justification that the United States says provides immunity to a legal challenge at the World Trade Organization.The United States has already submitted an opinion in a WTO dispute between Russia and Ukraine, saying that national security is "self-judging" - a stance that puts it on the side of Russia and at odds with Ukraine and the EU.Others insist a national security claim must rest on hard evidence. China said many countries saw no such threat for the United States, where domestic steel production covered military needs 32 times over, or more if one counted exemptions given "temporarily and likely permanently" to U.S. allies.Russian steelmaker Severstal filed a New York lawsuit last Thursday, arguing that the tariffs were unlawful and that the exemptions revealed the "specious" national security claim."The president\'s public statements on these exemptions lay bare that not only was the Steel Proclamation a political move, but the true rationale was simply that of seeking leverage in other trade negotiations," Severstal\'s lawsuit says.A spokeswoman said Severstal strongly believed the tariffs violated international regulations and U.S. law, and the national security claim was unfounded.(Reporting by Tom Miles; Additional reporting by Hyunjoo Jin and Joyce Lee in SEOUL, Yuka Obayashi in TOKYO, and Anastasia Lyrchikova and Polina Devitt in MOSCOW; Editing by Robin Pomeroy and Hugh Lawson)

WASHINGTON/BEIJING   Top Trump administration officials are asking China to cut tariffs on imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of financial services firms and buy more U.S.-made semiconductors in negotiations to avoid plans to slap tariffs on a host of Chinese goods and a potential trade war.A person familiar with the discussions said these were among the asks from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer as they pursue talks with Beijing.The Wall Street Journal first reported the demands from U.S. officials, saying they came in a letter sent to Beijing last week.White House trade adviser Peter Navarro confirmed that President Donald Trump asked Mnuchin and Lighthizer to try to resolve trade differences with China."We\'re hopeful there that China will work with us to basically address some of these practices," Navarro told CNBC television.U.S. stocks surged on Monday on the news that the two sides were talking, after a massive rout last week when Trump announced plans to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese imports over alleged misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property.The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its third biggest point gain ever, rising 669.4 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 24,202.6 while the broader S&P 500 rose 2.7 percent after a nearly 6 percent drop last week.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang earlier on Monday said that China and the United States should maintain negotiations and repeated pledges to ease access for American businesses to China\'s markets.Li told a conference that included global chief executives that China would treat foreign and domestic firms equally, would not force foreign firms to transfer technology and would strengthen intellectual property rights, repeating promises that have failed to placate Washington.Despite a steady stream of fierce rhetoric from Chinese state media lambasting the United States for being a "bully" and warning of retaliation, Chinese and U.S. officials are busy negotiating behind the scenes.TARIFFS TO PROCEED WITHOUT AGREEMENTIn an interview aired on Sunday, Mnuchin told Fox News that he was pursuing an agreement with the Chinese "for them to open up their markets, reduce their tariffs, stop forced technology transfer. These are all the things we want to do.""We are proceeding with these tariffs, were not putting them on hold unless we have an acceptable agreement that the president signs off on," Mnuchin added.China has offered to buy more U.S. semiconductors by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, the Financial Times reported, citing people briefed on the negotiations. China imported $2.6 billion of semiconductors from the United States last year.Chinese officials are also working to finalize rules by May - instead of the end of June - to allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in Chinese securities firms, the Financial Times said."I anticipate that for political reasons it would be logical for China to respond, because countries do," Blackstone Group Chief Executive Stephen Schwarzman told Reuters on Monday on the sidelines of the Beijing conference where Li spoke."Thats why I view this more as a skirmish, and I think the interests of both countries are served by resolving some of these matters."China called on World Trade Organization members on Monday to unite to oppose Trump\'s proposed tariffs targeting alleged intellectual property theft, saying they should "lock this beast back into the cage of WTO rules."On Friday, China responded to the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports, including fruit, nuts and wine.China could also inflict pain on U.S. multinationals that rely on China for a substantial - and growing - portion of their total revenues, said Alex Wolf, senior emerging markets economist at Aberdeen Standard Investments."This could put U.S. companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Starbucks, GM, Nike, etc in the firing line," Wolf said in a note.China can increase the regulatory burden on U.S companies through new inspections and rules; ban travel; stop providing export licenses of key intermediate goods; raise the tax burden on U.S. multinationals in China; or block U.S. companies from the government procurement market, he said.CAR TARIFF DIFFERENTIALThe Trump administration has demanded that China immediately cut its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States by $100 billion.China has a 25 percent tariff on U.S. cars and has talked recently of lowering it, while Trump has often complained that the U.S. import tariff on passenger vehicles is only 2.5 percent. China\'s imports of U.S.-built motor vehicles totaled $10.6 billion in 2017, about 8 percent of the country\'s overall U.S. imports by value, according to U.S. government data.On the reported offer to increase U.S. semiconductor imports, it is unclear how U.S. chips would replace South Korean and Taiwanese chips, since there is minimal overlap between U.S. chips and those of the two Asian producers.China is heavily dependent on foreign semiconductors, one of its biggest import categories by value. That said, the United States accounted for just 1 percent of China\'s total semiconductor imports last year by value, according to Reuters calculations based on Chinese customs data.(Additional reporting by Matthew Miller, Ben Blanchard, Elias Glenn and Stella Qiu in Beijing and Eric Beech in Washington; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Leslie Adler)
BEIJING/SEOUL   Events are unfolding quickly on the Korean peninsula with planned summits between North and South Korea and the United States, a presidential official in Seoul said on Tuesday, amid  reports that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is in China.Bloomberg, citing three unidentified sources, reported on Monday that Kim was in Beijing in what would be his first known trip outside North Korea since taking power in 2011. The unconfirmed visit also comes ahead of a potential summit with U.S. President Donald Trump."The presidential Blue House is watching things in Beijing very closely, while keeping all possibilities open," said the senior official in Seoul, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Improving bilateral ties between North Korea and China would be a positive sign before the planned summits, he said.A Reuters reporter saw a convoy leave Beijing\'s Diaoyutai State Guest House, where senior foreign leaders often stay on visits to the Chinese capital, and drive north on Tuesday morning. It was unclear where the convoy was headed.Diplomatic sources in Beijing said it was likely Kim was in China, but they could not confirm it definitively.Underscoring the mystery surrounding the trip, one senior Beijing-based diplomatic source told Reuters simply: "We just don\'t know".One source with ties to China\'s leadership said it was possible Kim\'s sister, Kim Yo Jong, was in the city. She visited South Korea for the Winter Olympics last month, paving the way for a summit between the two Koreas.South Korean news agency Newsis reported that Kim Yo Jong and the North\'s ceremonial leader, Kim Yong Nam, were visiting Beijing, citing an unidentified North Korea-related source in Beijing.The pair visited South Korean President Moon Jae-in at his office in Seoul during the Winter Olympics in February.PURPOSE UNKNOWNThe details of Kim Jong Un\'s visit, including its purpose and itinerary, were not yet known, Bloomberg reported. Japanese media reported earlier on Monday that a high-ranking Pyongyang official appeared to have arrived by train in Beijing.The Blue House official said the South Korean government had been aware of "related movements" in North Korea, such as the train, for a few days but he could not confirm whether Kim or another high-ranking North Korean official was visiting China.Beijing is secretive and isolated North Korea\'s main ally, as well as its biggest trading partner.China has not confirmed any visit by a North Korean but has not totally censored speculation Kim himself might be in town.Searches on Baidu News, China\'s equivalent of Google News, brought up two stories in the simplified Chinese edition of Taiwanese newspaper the China Times that reported, citing what it said were internet rumors, that Kim was on a secret visit to Beijing.One of the paper\'s reports showed pictures taken from Chinese social media of what was purportedly Kim\'s train in China.There were also posts on Chinese social media talking about the possibility Kim was in China, some citing family members in the Chinese border city of Dandong where the main train link between the two countries is located.Kim is due to hold separate summits with South Korea in late April and the United States in May, including a potential meeting with Trump."The fact that the summits are being held has been beyond our expectations. Right now, the situation surrounding the Korean peninsula is moving very quickly and it would be inadvisable to think with prejudice," the Blue House official said.Kim Jong Un\'s father, Kim Jong Il, met then-president Jiang Zemin in China in 2000 before a summit between the two Koreas in June that year.Kim Jong Il was considered at the time to have made the visit to reaffirm close ties with the North\'s biggest ally."North Korea likely wants to confirm its relationship with China and believes it has some leverage with which it can ask for things from China," said Yoo Ho-yeol, Professor of North Korean studies at Seoul\'s Korea University."If North Korea speaks with the United States on its own it might feel it is at a disadvantage but, if it has China as an ally, Pyongyang may think it will be able to protect its interests and profits during the summits," Yoo said.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard in BEIJING and Christine Kim in SEOUL; Additional reporting by Heekyong Yang in SEOUL; Editing by Paul Tait)
HONG KONG  For eight years in a row, an international survey of nearly 300 cities has named Hong Kong the worlds least affordable housing market.It is not hard to see why. Located on a group of hilly islands and a corner of the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong has always been short of places to build. The governments reliance on land sales for revenue creates an incentive to keep prices high. Money pouring in from mainland Chinese investors pushes them even higher.The extremes can be staggering. A single parking spot sold for $664,000 last year. Apartments only slightly bigger, and in much less desirable parts of town, go for more than $380,000. Living spaces have shrunk so much that a new term has emerged: nano flat, for apartments measuring around 200 square feet or less.Many Hong Kongers have been priced out of the housing market, including young people forced to live with their parents. Their discontent is said to have contributed to recent street protests like the 2014 Umbrella Movement.A government task force is considering a wide range of options for making better use of available land. Architects and developers have also put forward some novel proposals, ranging from the quirky to the audacious. While some of the ideas may be repackaged versions of the cramped spaces the city has long known, others could reshape the future of housing in Hong Kong. Here are some of the ideas:The architect James Law was at a construction site in town when he noticed some concrete pipes left over from an infrastructure project. They were large enough to walk in, cool in the summer and surprisingly nicely finished.I had a eureka moment, he said.So he spent about a month designing and building the OPod, two sections of concrete drainpipe joined to create a living space of about 100 square feet. It includes a couch and foldout bed, a desk, shelving, a tiny kitchenette, a hanging closet and a shower.The pods can be stacked up to five high, or placed in small, unused spaces between buildings and under bridges. A prototype is now on display in a waterfront park, but there are no plans yet for commercial production.It is not a complete solution to what is a very complex problem, Mr. Law said. But it is a fun, design-oriented way to stimulate debate and even, on a small scale, create model projects.One idea is already a reality, in a pair of 50-year-old buildings with distinctive blue, gray and green geometric patterns.The buildings stand on a street lined with shops selling power tools and industrial fans. Such tenements, known as tong lau, were common here in Hong Kong before high-rises. Synergy Biz Group, a local architecture and development company, has recycled them into communal living spaces with some modern touches.Called Bibliotheque, the buildings feature slickly designed dormitory-like living spaces with shared kitchens and bathrooms. The rooms are tiny, with about 50 square feet per single unit, and cost from about $450 to $750 a month. The residents are mostly young, drawn by rents that are low by Hong Kong standards.Jo Chow, a 33-year-old office administrator who lives in one of the spaces, said she pays half of what she did for an apartment in a more distant corner of Hong Kong.For me, I just need a flat in a convenient location, she said. I dont need a big place to live right now.Some people have criticized these spaces as new takes on Hong Kongs infamous coffin homes, apartments that have been subdivided into tiny spaces, and questioned the appeal of such cramped, communal arrangements.They may save on the cost of rent, said Yip Ngai-ming, a professor of public policy at City University of Hong Kong. But whether it will work, I dont know.But Keith Wong, the director of Synergy, argued that group living provided security and a sense of community. He said the company wanted to add more buildings and to work with landlords to convert individual apartments.Half a century ago, when refugees poured into Hong Kong to escape turmoil in mainland China, the city started a public housing program that provides residences, usually in high-rises, for nearly half of the population today.The architect and professor David Erdman has suggested fitting in more people in those same buildings by going even higher, adding cornices of from 5 to 25 stories atop the existing structures, which are already often about 40 stories tall already.The idea was inspired by discussions with former colleagues at the University of Hong Kong about fitting additional housing in the spaces between public housing blocks. Building upward instead would offer the same result without harming existing amenities, said Mr. Erdman, now chairman of Graduate Architecture and Urban Design at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.His students have produced dramatic designs that would transform the drab and repetitive look of Hong Kongs public housing complexes. I would love to see one built, Mr. Erdman said.Perhaps the most unconventional idea calls for putting people on cruise liners.The floating community would not be a permanent solution but is instead the first step in a proposal from Doctoral Exchange, a local research group.The second step of the plan is even more ambitious: building several large artificial islands in the sea to the south of Hong Kong. The new, 45-square-mile archipelago would fall outside Hong Kongs boundaries, meaning it would require backing from Chinas central government.Island building on such a scale would likely face opposition over potential environmental damage. But China would have at least one advantage in such a project, said Francis Neoton Cheung of Doctoral Exchange. It could use the same reclamation technology that it is currently developing in the South China Sea to build military strongholds on what were once sunken reefs, he said.I know its a bit daring, but it might be the solution, he said. If circumstances allow.Hong Kongs container port is the worlds fifth-largest by volume. It also sits on an iconic part of the waterfront that the government task force is now looking at to ease the land shortage.Hundreds of thousands of people could live on the ports 900 acres. One proposal calls for relocating the port to make way for housing. Another calls for keeping the port where it is, while constructing huge platforms above its bustling waterfront cranes on which residential skyscrapers could then be built.Officials call this idea feasible, and the port operator says it is open to the idea, but the cost and levels of public support are still unknown.Like other more ambitious ideas for new housing, the port-topping towers might never be built. But the idea of redeveloping ports isnt so unusual. One of Hong Kongs first large-scale private housing developments, Taikoo Shing, was built on the site of Swire Companys dockyards.
BEIJING  China has struck a hard stance on the issue at the root of the looming trade fight between Beijing and Washington: Chinas government-led drive, which Washington describes as breaking international rules, to build the cutting-edge industries of the future.Chinese officials in recent days have been defending the governments ambitious plan, known as Made in China 2025, to create globally competitive players in industries like advanced microchips, driverless cars and robotics. While Beijing has signaled a willingness to compromise on other matters, the intractable standoff over its core industrial policy could prolong a trade fight that has already shaken markets and led to concerns about a full-blown trade war.We are three years into the implementation of Made in China 2025, and we will keep going, Miao Wei, Chinas minister of industry and information technology, said on Monday, the last day of a three-day economic policy forum in the Chinese capital.The Trump administration has threatened to impose tariffs on imports involving many of the industries being developed under the Made in China 2025 program. Administration officials strongly object to the programs goal of having Chinese companies dominate these advanced industries, particularly in the Chinese market.Washington has also protested that companies in the targeted industries have been offered loans at low interest rates by state-controlled Chinese banks. The White House argues that will result in global capacity gluts that could drive down prices and destroy the viability of tech companies in the West, as well as in countries, like Japan and South Korea, that are allied with the United States.China has engaged for a very long time in the theft of our intellectual property as well as practices like forced technology transfer, Peter Navarro, President Trumps trade adviser, said on CNBC on Monday. Were hopeful that China will basically work with us to address some of these practices.Mr. Navarro on Monday tried to calm financial markets, which were rattled last week by the prospect of a trade war. He emphasized that growth and stability were the aim of Mr. Trumps policy goal of ensuring that trade with the United States is fair and reciprocal.Investors fears of a trade war seemed to subside some on Monday. The Standard & Poors 500-stock index climbed 2.7 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.8 percent and the Nasdaq composite jumped 3.3 percent.Whether an agreement that forestalls a protracted economic conflict can be reached remains unclear. The two nations, whose markets are highly integrated, have engaged in discussions for years with little to show as a result. Talks between the United States and China stalled last summer, and the Comprehensive Economic Dialogue between two countries has produced little progress.The Trump administration has largely shunned the highly structured discussions of past administrations, which were used to try to reach agreement on economic and security issues. The White House now views those channels as producing largely hollow promises by the Chinese and has shifted toward engaging directly with senior-level Chinese counterparts.On Saturday, just two days after the administration announced tariffs on up to $60 billion worth of Chinese imports, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, called Liu He, Chinas economic czar, to congratulate him on his new role of vice premier. The two discussed the trade tensions, including reducing tariffs on American cars and opening up Chinas financial services sector to American firms.They also discussed the trade deficit between our two countries and committed to continuing the dialogue to find a mutually agreeable way to reduce it, a Treasury spokeswoman said.Chinas official news agency, Xinhua, characterized the call between Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Liu as confrontational, with Mr. Liu warning Mr. Mnuchin that Americas trade actions against China were straining economic ties between the countries.Chinese leaders contend that their countrys economy is still developing. They openly reject Mr. Trumps call for reciprocity in trade relations. They have instead offered concessions like raising  caps on foreign investors stakes in Chinese financial institutions, and proposed eliminating import tariffs in narrow categories like drugs to treat cancer.Beijing says that opening up some services sectors would improve the efficiency of the Chinese economy as well as make money for foreign companies. Improving health care, particularly for the aging, has also become a national priority.But Chinese officials argue that their country is still dangerously reliant on smokestack industries of the past, like steel,  aluminum and cheap manufacturing. The average Chinese household lives on a quarter of the income that American and Western European households do, and standards of living remain very low in rural parts of the country, and across central and western China.Wang Shouwen, Chinas vice minister of commerce, and Pascal Lamy, a former director general of the World Trade Organization, squared off at the Beijing forum over precisely that issue.Mr. Wang insisted that China had made considerable strides in opening up its health, agriculture and shipping sectors to international competition. He noted that the United States and the European Union had higher tariffs than China on some imports of shirts and dairy products. He argued that China meets its W.T.O. obligations; the W.T.O. has long allowed developing countries to have higher tariffs to protect certain industries from international competition.Mr. Lamy, a longtime critic of protectionism and government intervention, dismissed those arguments. China  which has the worlds second-largest economy, after the United States, and is the worlds largest manufacturer by far, of everything from steel and cement to laptop computers  had made too much progress to be lumped in with poor countries, he said.Pretending it is like India, or like Senegal, or like Botswana is pushing the envelope too far, Mr. Lamy said. He added that China still had to do more to ensure a level playing field between Chinese producers and foreign producers, whether they produce inside China or outside of China.On crucial issues, China and the United States appear to be talking past each other, not even agreeing on what is being debated.Take semiconductors, for example: China is a major customer for microchips, which are used to power computers, smartphones and an ever-widening array of other electronics. Chips from the United States account for just 4 percent of Chinas $260 billion in annual chip imports. While Chinese trade officials have been willing to discuss buying more chips from factories in the United States, that could take market share from Japan and South Korea. Washington has resisted that solution.American officials say the problem is that Chinas national, provincial and municipal governments are working with state-owned banks to rush the construction of factories, particularly to make memory chips.The new factories often rely on technology that foreign companies have had to transfer as a condition of competing in the Chinese market, according to the United States. Global trade rules ban mandatory technology transfers.Numerous factories are nearing completion, which will unleash an avalanche of additional output. China contends that it has assisted the sector partly to upgrade its economy and partly because the factories will mainly be supplying its domestic market.But since factories in China are the worlds main assemblers of electronics, the countrys drive for self-sufficiency in microchips could pose a threat to chip producers in the rest of the world.For now, China seems to be pinning its hopes on heavy lobbying in Washington by Wall Street, traditionally Beijings most reliable ally in bilateral disputes. Chinas sovereign wealth fund owns stakes in a variety of American financial institutions. Estimates of Chinese outbound investment over the next decade run as high as $2.5 trillion, a rich source of advisory fees in the United States.Mr. Wang said on Sunday that China might go beyond its earlier offer to raise caps on foreign ownership in Chinese financial institutions. It is even possible we will remove those caps altogether in some categories, he said.But he also made clear that China would not be intimidated if its offers are not enough to satisfy the Trump administration, which has focused on reviving American manufacturing.If Chinas interests are impaired, he said, we will have to take measures.
BEIJING   China has offered to buy more semiconductors from the United States by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, to help cut China's trade surplus with the U.S., the Financial Times reported on Monday, citing unidentified sources.To avert a looming trade war with the U.S., Chinese officials are also rushing to finalize new regulations by May that will allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in its securities firms, Financial Times said, citing people briefed on the discussions.(Reporting by Ryan Woo; Editing by Kim Coghill)
BEIJING  A video that appeared to show the arrival in Beijing of an old-style green train of the kind that has been used by North Koreas leaders fueled intense speculation on Monday that a high-level North Korean delegation, perhaps even one led by Kim Jong-un, was meeting Chinese leaders ahead of Mr. Kims planned meetings with President Trump and South Koreas president.There was no official pronouncement from China or North Korea about the train and its passengers. The South Korean press, which usually monitors North Korean official movements carefully, was circumspect on Monday night about the speculation.But the Japanese broadcaster NTV showed footage of what it said was the train arriving in Beijing. It said that green cars with yellow stripes were similar to those used by Mr. Kims father and predecessor as leader, Kim Jong-il, when he visited China in 2011, raising the possibility that the younger Mr. Kim or a powerful envoy may be visiting Beijing.In addition, the Japanese broadcaster NHK, citing unnamed diplomatic sources, said that a train seemed to have arrived in Beijing from North Korea.Journalists in Beijing also spotted a military honor guard welcoming a convoy of vehicles that entered the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse where top North Korean leaders have been known to stay on visits to China, adding to the speculation about a high-level delegation from the North.But even the closest watchers of Mr. Kims activities were unsure who was on the train. Some residents in Beijing shared images of what seemed to be a motorcade of 20 or so cars speeding through the city, but those images could not be verified.We are closely monitoring any related movements, using various channels to try to confirm them, the office of South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, said in a brief statement about news reports about the train.A top-level North Korean visit to the Chinese capital would be another surprise twist in a recent whirlwind of diplomacy over North Koreas nuclear arms, and could ease years of icy strains between Beijing and North Korea.Chinas president, Xi Jinping, has never met Mr. Kim. Mr. Kim has not visited China since he became North Koreas leader in 2011, despite a partnership between the two Communist neighbors.If Mr. Kim was on the train, it would be his first trip outside his country as North Koreas leader. He has never met any foreign head of state. If he meets Mr. Xi before his planned meetings with Mr. Trump and Mr. Moon, it could help mend the recently frayed ties between the two old Communist allies.Mr. Kims aggressive drive for a nuclear arsenal able to strike the continental United States has drawn increasingly harsh criticism from Beijing, which has backed several rounds of increasingly stringent sanctions against North Korea. North Korean exports of coal, seafood and other valuable sources of currency have been reduced by the sanctions.No official activity by Mr. Kim has been reported by North Koreas state-run media since he met the South Korean envoys on March 5, when the two sides agreed to a meeting between Mr. Kim and Mr. Moon in the border village of Panmunjom in late April.The South Korean envoys then visited the White House on March 9, delivering what they said was Mr. Kims offer to discuss denuclearizing his country with President Trump. Mr. Trump accepted the invitation on the spot and said he would meet Mr. Kim by May.During this swirl of abrupt turns, China has mostly been a bystander, playing no direct role in the diplomacy. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said it welcomes the easing of tensions. But experts have said that Beijing would want to make sure that any negotiations protect its interests.North Korea depends heavily on China for trade, food, energy and a degree of protection from even tougher international sanctions. But the North has bristled at the idea that it is beholden to China. And Chinese officials and many experts say that Chinas influence over North Korea is more limited and brittle than Mr. Trump and other Western leaders seem to believe.From 2003, Beijing hosted six-party talks which brought together North and South Korea, the United States, Japan, Russia and China to seek an agreement on ending the Norths nuclear program. But the talks foundered after 2009. More recently, Beijing has proposed that North Korea suspend its nuclear and missile tests in return for the United States and South Korea suspending major joint military exercises.
SEOUL   The United States has agreed to exempt South Korea from steel tariffs, South Korea\'s trade ministry said on Monday, instead imposing a quota on steel imports as the two countries renegotiate a trade deal sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump.South Korea had meanwhile agreed to give ground on automobile trade regulations by agreeing to changes in the bilateral free trade deal known as KORUS, the ministry said.In April, Trump told Reuters he would either renegotiate or terminate what he called a horrible trade deal that has doubled the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea since 2012.The agreement means South Korea becomes the first U.S. ally to receive an indefinite exemption, albeit with quota, on steel tariffs imposed by Trump, a move that had fueled concerns of a damaging global trade war.Last week, Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada and Mexico, Australia and the European Union  from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum which came into effect on Friday.The import duties, of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, were mainly aimed at curbing imports from China.South Korea has received a quota of about 2.68 million tonnes of steel exports, or 70 percent of the annual average Korean steel exports to the United States between 2015-2017, which will be exempt from the new tariffs, the ministry said in a statement.South Korea is the third-largest steel exporter to the United States and the world\'s top importer of Chinese steel, leading to concerns it was a conduit for China\'s excess capacity.Shares in South Korean steelmakers rose sharply on Monday, with Dongbu Steel leading gains, on expectations of tariff exemptions. [nL3N1R805H]South Korea\'s steel association said in a statement it was a "relief" that South Korea has been excluded from U.S. steel tariffs, but it was regrettable it was unable to secure more quotas for steel exports.South Koreas steel industry will "try to pave the way to ease U.S. restrictions on steel exports," the association said in a statement.South Korea and the United States also agreed that U.S. tariffs on Korean pickup trucks will be in place until 2041, extended by 20 years from the previous phase-out schedule of 2021.Under the revisions, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea each year 50,000 vehicles per automaker that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously.South Korea also said it will "take into account U.S. standards and global trends" when Seoul decides its fuel economy and emissions rules from 2021 to 2015.(Reporting by Joyce Lee and Hyunjoo Jin; Editing by Lincoln Feast)
BEIJING   The arrival of a special train in Beijing and unusually heavy security at a guesthouse where prominent North Koreans have stayed in the past have raised speculation that Kim Jong Un is making his first visit to China as the North\'s leader.Kim has summits planned with South Korean President Moon Jae-in in late April and with President Donald Trump by May. While there has been no word of a similar meeting with Chinese leaders, China has been one of North Korea\'s most important allies even though relations have recently chilled because of Kim\'s development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles.A vehicle convoy entered the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing on Monday evening and a military honor guard and heavy security were seen later. That followed reports from Japanese network NTV and public broadcaster NHK of a special North Korean train arriving in Beijing under unusually heavy security.Shortly before 11 a.m. Tuesday, a convoy of official Chinese cars was seen leaving the east gate of guesthouse, heading in the direction of government offices and the city\'s two train stations.City police and the paramilitary People\'s Armed Police stood guard in the area and unidentified men in plainclothes attempted to prevent photographers from taking pictures.Cars in the convoy were identified by yellow stickers but carried no diplomatic license plates. The guesthouse had been the favored residence of Kim\'s father, North Korea\'s former leader Kim Jong Il.A spokeswoman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said she was not aware of the situation and had no further comment. North Korea\'s state-run media had no reports of a delegation traveling to China.South Korea\'s presidential office said Tuesday it cannot confirm reports that the train carried Kim nor a separate report that Kim\'s sister was onboard.South Korean analysts were doubtful the visitor is Kim Jong Un. Since succeeding his father as leader in 2011, Kim has touted an image of his country as diplomatic equal to China and it\'s unlikely he would sneak into Beijing for his first face-to-face meetings with the Chinese leadership, the experts said. They said it\'s more likely Kim sent a special envoy, possibly his sister Kim Yo Jong, to appease a traditional ally ahead of his planned meetings with the presidents of South Korea and the United States. The envoy could potentially seek Chinese commitment for future support should North Korea\'s talks with rivals fall through, said Du Hyeogn Cha, a visiting scholar at Seoul\'s Asan Institute for Policy Studies."North Korea doesn\'t want to send a message that China has been pushed to the back as it makes diplomatic approaches to the United States and South Korea," said Cha, saying that the visit could be part of the North\'s effort to gain leverage in the talks with South Korea and the United States. "If the talks with South Korea and the United States fall through, North Korea will surely try to demonstrate its nuclear weapons and missile capabilities again. The special envoy could discuss this possibility with Chinese officials, asking China not to press too hard with sanctions if that happens."Heavy security was reported at the Friendship Bridge before the train passed from North Korea to China, and there were reports of it passing through several stations on the way from North Korea to Beijing.NTV reported the green and yellow train appeared very similar to the one that former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il, Kim Jong Un\'s late father, took to Beijing in 2011 and has 21 cars.A video that aired on NTV also showed a motorcade of black limousines waiting at the train station and rows of Chinese soldiers marching on what appeared to be a train platform. The video did not show anyone getting off the train.White House spokesman Raj Shah said Monday the U.S. could not confirm reports that Kim was visiting China.Shah reiterated Trump\'s plans to meet with Kim, saying the U.S.-led international pressure campaign against Pyongyang "has paid dividends and has brought the North Koreans to the table."___AP writer Kim Tong-hyung in Seoul contributed to this report.
SYDNEY   Fears of a full-blown trade war between the United States and China battered Asian shares again on Monday, keeping the safe haven yen near a 16-month peak as investors fretted over the fate of global growth.But E-Mini futures for the S&P 500 <.ESc1> leapt 0.6 percent, an unusual move during early Asian hours, after the Wall Street Journal reported the United States and China have quietly started negotiating to improve U.S. access to Chinese markets.The news was little consolation for Asian shares which were left nursing their wounds.Japan\'s Nikkei was down 0.6 percent after falling to a near six-month trough at open. Chinese shares declined about 1 percent in early trade. <SSEC>MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan slipped 0.2 percent for its fourth consecutive day in the red.The index is headed for its first quarterly decline since late 2016 as the risk of faster U.S. rate rises and the specter of a trade war spooked investors who had enjoyed a multi-year bull run."Protectionism remains a source of volatility and downside for equities," analysts at JPMorgan said in a note."Asia ex-Japan equity outperformance is in part a function of faster growth and capital inflows - both clearly at risk in a trade war."South Korea\'s benchmark share index was the lone bright spot, up 0.1 percent on reports the United States and South Korea were on the verge of a trade deal, including an exemption from U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs for South Korea.The Korean won <KWR=> was also firmer after hitting a near one-month trough on the U.S. dollar last week.U.S. President Donald Trump signed a memorandum on Friday that could impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of imports from China, although the measures have a 30-day consultation period before they take effect.The tariffs are on top of additional duties on steel and aluminum on a number of countries including China, which has already hit back with its own plans to slap duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports.U.S. shares were also clobbered last week, with the Dow falling 1.8 percent on Friday, the S&P 500 declining 2.1 percent and the Nasdaq off 2.4 percent."A faltering US stock market would be contagious, which it has been since Wednesday," Capital Economics said in a note."Stocks in emerging market countries with close to ties to China remain especially vulnerable, as do companies around the world which could be affected by Chinese retaliation," it added.IN SEARCH OF SAFETYIn the uncertain global economic climate, investors looked to pile into the Japanese yen <JPY=>, traditionally a safe haven asset thanks to the country\'s massive current account surplus.Speculators added short dollar bets to their portfolios, taking the net short position to its highest in more than a year, according to calculations by Reuters and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the week to March 20.Short yen positions were cut to the smallest since November 2016.The yen held at 104.90 after last week going below 105 for the first time since November 2016. The euro <EUR=>, another perceived haven for nervous investors, was up 0.1 percent at $1.2367.The dollar index tracking the greenback against six other major currencies, was near a one-month low at 89.423.In commodities, international Brent crude futures <LCOcv1> opened above $70 per barrel for the first time since January.Prices were lifted by expectations that OPEC-leader Saudi Arabia may extend supply cuts into 2019, as well as concerns that the United States may re-introduce sanctions against Iran. [O/R]Spot gold <XAU=> was flat at $1,346.71 an ounce.(Reporting by Swati Pandey; Editing by Eric Meijer)
SEOUL   The United States and South Korea agreed to revise a trade pact sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump, Seoul said on Monday, with U.S. automakers winning improved market access and Korean steelmakers hit with quotas but avoiding hefty tariffs.The planned changes in the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) were seen as limited, leaving South Korea\'s key passenger car exports untouched and helping soothe fears that Trump\'s tough approach could start a spiraling global trade war.In April, Trump told Reuters he would either renegotiate or terminate what he called a "horrible" trade deal that has doubled the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea since 2012.Asian shares steadied on Monday, stemming last week\'s hefty losses after Trump\'s action on steel and aluminum, and his plans to slap tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods.The agreement means South Korea will be forced to cut its steel exports to the U.S. by 30 percent of the past three years\' average, in exchange for becoming the first U.S. ally to receive an indefinite exemption on steel tariffs imposed by Trump."We had heated discussions," South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said at a media briefing in Seoul. "The latest agreement removed two uncertainties," he said, referring to steel tariff exemptions and KORUS renegotiation.The U.S. Trade Representative\'s office in Washington did not respond on Monday morning to requests for comment on the announcements in Seoul. But White House trade adviser Peter Navarro told CNBC television, "It looks like we\'re going to have a very, very good result" from the negotiations with South Korea.Last week, Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada, Mexico and the European Union from import duties of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, which came into effect on Friday.South Korea has received a quota of about 2.68 million tonnes of steel exports, or 70 percent of the annual average Korean steel exports to the United States between 2015-2017, which will be exempt from the new tariffs, the ministry said in a statement.South Korea is not allowed to export steel products exceeding that quota to the U.S. market, a ministry official said."This leaves a bad precedent of exchanging steel tariffs - which is a breach of international trade law - for a legitimate free trade agreement, in negotiations," said Wonmog Choi, professor of law at Ewha Womans University.TRADE WAR FEARSSouth Korea is the third-largest steel exporter to the United States and the world\'s top importer of Chinese steel, leading to concerns it was a conduit for China\'s excess capacity.Trump was elected in 2016 after promising to punish what he saw as unfair trade practices by other countries, particularly China.While Trump was adamant the KORUS deal needed renegotiating, the trade spat risked undermining relations between Seoul and Washington at a crucial time, as Washington and Seoul work closely to try to contain a nuclear-armed North Korea."We are at a time when U.S.-South Korea cooperation is needed more than ever ahead of the inter-Korean summit and the summit between North Korea and the United States," said a senior official at South Korea\'s presidential Blue House, who was not authorized to speak to media.South Korean officials said that while the deal agreed was the best they could hope for, further pressure on trade was likely under Trump\'s presidency.Shares in South Korean steelmakers rallied on Monday, with Dongbu Steel leading gains as tariff exemptions were confirmed.U.S. shares also climbed on Monday after steep falls last week as fears of a U.S.-China trade war eased on news that U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer were negotiating to resolve difference with their Chinese counterparts.AUTOS CONCESSIONAs part of the KORUS revision, the countries agreed to extend U.S. tariffs on Korean pickup trucks by 20 years until 2041.No South Korean automakers currently export pickup trucks to the United States, but Hyundai Motor said last year it planned to launch a model there to catch up with a shift away from sedans.Hyundai said on Monday it was "too early to elaborate on the details such as the estimated timing of the model release and production location". Its shares fell 1.3 percent.Under KORUS revisions, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea 50,000 vehicles per automaker per year that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously.Kim said no automakers previously exceeded the 25,000-vehicle threshold. Ford Motor Co and General Motors each shipped fewer than 10,000 vehicles last year."I don\'t see a high chance of automakers expanding U.S. imports," he said.(Additional reporting by Christine Kim in Seoul and David Lawder in Washington; Editing by Lincoln Feast and James Dalgleish)
SEOUL   The United States and South Korea agreed to revise a trade pact sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump, Seoul said on Monday, with U.S. automakers winning improved market access and Korean steelmakers hit with quotas but avoiding hefty tariffs.The planned changes in the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) were seen as limited, leaving South Korea\'s key passenger car exports untouched and helping soothe fears that Trump\'s tough approach could start a spiraling global trade war.In April, Trump told Reuters he would either renegotiate or terminate what he called a "horrible" trade deal that has doubled the U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea since 2012.Asian shares steadied on Monday, stemming last week\'s hefty losses after Trump\'s action on steel and aluminum, and his plans to slap tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods. [MKTS/GLOB]The agreement means South Korea will be forced to cut its steel exports to the U.S. by 30 percent of past three years\' average, in exchange for becoming the first U.S. ally to receive an indefinite exemption on steel tariffs imposed by Trump."We had heated discussions," South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said at a media briefing in Seoul. "The latest agreement removed two uncertainties," he said, referring to steel tariff exemptions and KORUS renegotiation.Last week, Trump temporarily excluded six trade partners, including Canada, Mexico and the European Union from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum which came into effect on Friday.South Korea has received a quota of about 2.68 million tonnes of steel exports, or 70 percent of the annual average Korean steel exports to the United States between 2015-2017, which will be exempt from the new tariffs, the ministry said in a statement.South Korea is not allowed to export steel products exceeding that quota to the U.S. market, a ministry official said."This leaves a bad precedent of exchanging steel tariffs - which is a breach of international trade law - for a legitimate free trade agreement, in negotiations," said Wonmog Choi, professor of law at Ewha Womans University.TRADE WAR FEARSSouth Korea is the third-largest steel exporter to the United States and the world\'s top importer of Chinese steel, leading to concerns it was a conduit for China\'s excess capacity.Trump was elected in 2016 after promising to punish what he saw as unfair trade practices by other countries, particularly China.While Trump was adamant the KORUS deal needed renegotiating, the trade spat risked undermining relations between Seoul and Washington at a crucial time, as Washington and Seoul work closely to try to contain a nuclear-armed North Korea."We are at a time when U.S.-South Korea cooperation is needed more than ever ahead of the inter-Korean summit and the summit between North Korea and the United States," said a senior official at South Korea\'s presidential Blue House, who was not authorized to speak to media.South Korean officials said that while the deal agreed was the best they could hope for, further pressure on trade was likely under Trump\'s presidency."If President Trump becomes a two-term president ... I believe there will be continuous (trade) risks during that time," Trade Minister Kim said.Shares in South Korean steelmakers rallied on Monday, with Dongbu Steel leading gains as tariff exemptions were confirmed.South Korea\'s steel association said in a statement it was a "relief" that South Korea has been excluded from U.S. steel tariffs, but regrettable it was unable to secure higher quotas.AUTOS CONCESSIONAs part of the KORUS revision, the countries agreed to extend U.S. tariffs on Korean pickup trucks by 20 years until 2041.No South Korean automakers currently export pickup trucks to the United States, but Hyundai Motor said last year it planned to launch a model there to catch up with a shift away from sedans.Hyundai said on Monday it was "too early to elaborate on the details such as the estimated timing of the model release and production location". Its shares fell 1.3 percent.Under KORUS revisions, U.S. automakers will be able to bring into South Korea 50,000 vehicles per automaker per year that meet U.S. safety standards, not necessarily Korean standards, up from 25,000 vehicles previously.Kim said no automakers previously exceeded the 25,000-vehicle threshold. Ford Motor Co and General Motors each shipped fewer than 10,000 vehicles last year."I don\'t see a high chance of automakers expanding U.S. imports," he said.Kim Jong-hoon, a former chief negotiator for the KORUS FTA, said South Korea had fared relatively well in negotiations."South Korea gave concessions in autos in return for steel tariff exemptions," he told Reuters. "This is not a free trade, but a managed trade."(Reporting by Joyce Lee and Hyunjoo Jin; Additional reporting by Christine Kim; Editing by Lincoln Feast)

STOCKHOLM   Volvo Car Group will make cars for Lynk & Co at its plant in Ghent, Belgium from late next year, it said on Monday.The Lynk & Co brand is co-owned by Volvo Cars\' owner, China\'s Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co Ltd, and its two carmakers Volvo and Geely Auto. It began sales in China last year, with Europe set to follow in 2019 and the United States in 2020."We see a big potential for this new brand entering the European market and we are happy to give Lynk & Co the support of Volvo\'s technological and industrial expertise," Volvo Cars Chief Executive Hakan Samuelsson said in a statement.Production of the Lynk & Co cars in Ghent will help underpin production volumes, cost efficiency and employment at the plant, the company said. Ghent, which employs about 5,000 people, and Torslanda, in western Sweden, are Volvo\'s two European plants.A senior Lynk & Co official told Reuters last year the brand was considering building its vehicles in Ghent as well as at the factory Volvo has under construction in South Carolina.The joint production with Lynk & Co will generate economies of scale related to the common platform, or compact modular architecture, being used by both brands, Volvo said.(Reporting by Niklas Pollard; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)
SYDNEY   Asian share markets rose sharply on Tuesday as reports of behind-the-scenes talks between the United States and China rekindled hopes a damaging trade war could be averted, in turn sapping the strength of the dollar and yen.Taking their cue from a surge on Wall Street, Japan\'s Nikkei climbed 1.7 percent and China blue chips added 1.2 percent.MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose almost 1 percent. South Korea\'s KOSPI climbed 0.7 percent, adding to gains made after the U.S. exempted the country\'s steel from import tariffs.The abrupt mood swing came amid reports Chinese and U.S. officials were busy negotiating to avert an all-out trade war.White House officials are asking China to cut tariffs on imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of financial services firms and buy more U.S.-made semiconductors, said a person familiar with the discussions.Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on Monday pledged to maintain trade negotiations and ease access to American businesses.Even a whiff of a compromise was enough to propel Wall Street to its best day in 2-1/2 years and deliver the Dow its third-biggest point gain ever.The Dow jumped 2.84 percent, while the S&P 500 climbed 2.72 percent and the Nasdaq 3.26 percent. All 11 major sectors of the S&P 500 gained, with technology up 4.0 percent and finance 3.2 percent.The sudden bout of optimism on trade helped offset news the United States and many of its Allies were expelling more than  100 Russian diplomats in retaliation for a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.The surge in stocks dragged on the Treasury market, which faces a record $294 billion of new supply this week.Yields on 10-year Treasury notes inched up to  2.856 percent, but remained short of last week\'s top above 2.90 percent.In currency markets the reaction was to offload both the yen and the U.S. dollar."The yen is being quietly sold as risk hedges are unwound and looks particularly vulnerable on the crosses," Citi analysts said in a note.Short-covering against the euro was especially sharp as the common currency jumped 1.4 percent overnight to stand at 131.32 yen.That allowed the U.S. dollar to bounce to 105.69 yen, having been at its lowest since late 2016 at one point. Yet the U.S. currency ran into selling against almost everything else, with notable breaks by the euro and sterling.The euro was up at $1.2450, after cracking the March top at $1.2446, and bulls were eyeing the peak for the year so far at $1.2556.The broad-based softness kept the dollar retrained against a basket of currencies at 89.121, after touching a five-week trough of 88.979.The improved mood on trade gave a fillip to industrial commodities, with copper and iron ore bouncing, while spot gold was steady around $1,352.00 an ounce.In oil markets, U.S. crude futures put on 19 cents to  $65.74 a barrel, while Brent crude added 14 cents to  $70.26 a barrel.Last week, Brent advanced 6.4 percent and WTI rose 5.7 percent for the strongest gains since July.(Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by Eric Meijer & Shri Navaratnam)
WASHINGTON  President Trump is on the verge of securing his first major trade deal, leveraging the threat of tariffs to gain concessions from South Korea on exports of steel and imports of American cars.The deal, which the White House could announce on Tuesday, would come at a moment of heightened tension on the Korean Peninsula as the Trump administration prepares to hold talks with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un. Ties between Washington and Seoul had become strained over disagreements about trade, including Mr. Trumps steel tariffs, and threatened to further complicate the already fraught discussions with North Korea.The finalization of a trade agreement with South Korea would hand Mr. Trump a victory in his America First approach to trade, in which he has threatened to take tough trade action unless other countries agree to concessions, including a reduction in the gap between what they export to the United States and what America exports to their shores. The blanket steel and aluminum tariffs announced by the White House earlier this month are the most recent example of that blunt approach, with the White House using exemptions and revisions as a carrot to avoid the tariff stick.I think the strategy has worked, quite frankly, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, told Fox News in an interview on Sunday. We announced the tariff. We said we were going to proceed. But, again, we said wed simultaneously negotiate.I think this is an absolute win-win, he added, referring to the agreement with South Korea.The South Korean government announced the deal on Monday.It looks like were going to have a good result on that, Peter Navarro, Mr. Trumps trade adviser, said of the South Korea deal on CNBC on Monday.It remains to be seen whether the revised pact will be enough to satisfy lawmakers and industries that have been critical of South Koreas trading practices. Among the biggest concerns have been access to its markets for American exports of automobiles and agricultural products.The reduction of trade deficits have been a priority for the United States; in 2016, it had a $17 billion trade deficit with South Korea.In a statement published on Monday, the South Korean Trade Ministry said it had agreed to adhere to a quota of 2.68 million tons of steel exports to the United States a year, which it said was roughly equivalent to 70 percent of its annual average sent to the United States from 2015 to 2017. It also agreed to lower trade barriers to vehicles imported from the United States. Trump administration officials cited what they considered unfair barriers against American-made cars when they began last year to pressure South Korea to amend the trade pact.In return, the Trade Ministry said, South Korea would be exempt from the steel tariffs.Under the deal, the number of vehicles the United States can export to South Korea without meeting local safety requirements would double to 50,000.Cars are a major reason for Seouls trade surplus with Washington. Brands like Hyundai and Kia have found ready markets in the United States, but the big American automakers have complained that restrictions keep them from trying to make the same headway in South Korean. The agreement is also expected to allow the United States to extend the tariffs that it imposes on Korean pickup trucks to 2041. The tariffs are currently scheduled to be phased out in 2021.Kim Hyun-chong, South Koreas trade minister, told journalists on Monday, however, that there would be no further opening of his countrys agricultural markets, and no changes to tariffs that had already been lifted.The Trump administration suggested last week that the deal with South Korea was nearing completion as it unveiled the new tariffs targeting China.Trade experts said that while the concessions were a win for the Trump administration, they would most likely do little to dent the trade deficit and that South Korea was probably happy to have the negotiations behind them after the United States briefly flirted with withdrawing from the pact.Washington and Seoul began negotiations in January on changes to the six-year-old trade agreement, one that Mr. Trump had previously called a horrible deal.Im happy that they can take this off the table as another trade policy irritant, said Dan Ikenson, a trade expert at the Cato Institute who argued that the administrations trade policies and focus on trade deficits are out of sync with economic reality. This administration happens to believe, and its a fairy tale, that bilateral trade accounts matter.Some labor groups and others who share Mr. Trumps general frustration with Americas trade relationship with South Korea reacted coolly on Monday to the public details of the renegotiated deal, saying that the administration appeared to have achieved only modest progress and left some important issues out of the agreement. Several said the increased auto import numbers did not guarantee that automakers would be able to crack the Korean market, which is notoriously hostile to foreign cars.Others expressed cautious optimism.As with all trade agreements, the details are important, so I want to see the specific concessions we secured from Korea  especially on steel, said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. He added that it was good news that Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, appears to have taken steps to make the Korea agreement better for U.S. workers and auto companies while also getting the Koreans to limit their steel exports to the U.S.Mr. Trumps proposed tariffs  set in motion by a Commerce Department declaration that steel and aluminum imports posed a national security threat because they degraded the American industrial base  prompted  American allies and trading partners including Australia, the European Union and Japan, as well as South Korea, to jostle for exemptions. But the impact of the tariffs may not be as great as expected, since most of the biggest suppliers of foreign metals have been granted at least temporary exemptions.South Korea was the third-biggest exporter of steel to the United States in 2016, after Canada and the European Union. Mr. Lighthizer said last week that those three trading partners, along with Argentina, Australia and Brazil, would initially receive a reprieve from the tariffs.Mr. Trump pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact last year and said that he would focus on negotiating new bilateral deals with countries around the world. The steel tariffs are speeding up that process, and Mr. Mnuchin signaled on Sunday that more deals were on the way.Where weve put a pause on tariffs, were negotiating, he said.
The sky is falling. Again.Chinas first space station, Tiangong-1, abandoned and out of control, is expected to drop out of orbit around this weekend, with pieces of it likely to survive the fiery re-entry and crash somewhere on Earth.Dont worry.According to space debris experts, the chances that you personally will be hit by of a chunk of space metal are essentially zero  less than one in a trillion.Its really very, very, very tiny odds, said Andrew Abraham, an analyst leading efforts to track and predict the demise of the space station at the Aerospace Corporation, a nonprofit that performs research and analysis for the United States Air Force. I certainly would worry about things like crossing the street far more than debris from Tiangong.Tim Flohrer, a space debris analyst at the European Space Agency, said the risk is significantly smaller than being hit by lightning.For people north of 42.7 degrees north latitude  that includes the residents of Seattle, Britain and almost all of Russia  the odds are even better: exactly zero. Thats because the orbit of Tiangong-1 never passes that far north.The same is true for regions south of 42.7 degrees south latitude, but that part is almost entirely unpopulated except for the tip of South America, the bottom part of New Zealand and a few scattered scientific research stations on Antarctica.The European Space Agency just updated its forecast for Tiangong-1s demise, pinpointing its fall anytime from this Friday to next Monday.Aerospace offers a similar prediction: Sunday, give or take a couple of days.The projections have remained steady in recent days, with uncertainties shrinking. Still, it is impossible to determine where the station, which is currently circling the Earth 16 times a day, will come down. Experts will not have a good idea until the final hours.China launched Tiangong-1  Tiangong translates as heavenly palace  in 2011 as essentially a proof-of-concept of technologies for future larger stations. It weighs close to 19,000 pounds and consists of two modules; one including sleeping quarters for two and the other housing thrusters, life support systems and solar panels.Typically, for something that large, 10 percent to 40 percent of the mass will make it all the way to the surface without burning up. The Chinese have not released details of the space stations design, making it difficult to calculate a more precise estimate.China originally planned to use the thrusters to guide Tiangong-1 to splash harmlessly into an ocean. But in 2016, an apparent malfunction ended communications with the spacecraft. (The Chinese have not been very forthcoming about that, either.)Since then, Tiangong-1 has gradually been dropping lower and lower as it rubs up against the wisps of the upper atmosphere. On Monday, it was at an altitude of about 130 miles, dropping more than a mile every day, and its descent is accelerating.Its difficult to make exact predictions; the atmosphere puffs up and deflates depending on the barrage of particles in the solar wind and how that phenomenon speeds or slows the rate of falling. If a calculation is off by half an hour, the predicted impact site could be on the other side of the planet. Earlier this month, a solar storm appears to have moved up the timetable for the crash by a few hours.Indeed, space agencies like the E.S.A. are using Tiangong-1 as a learning exercise to compare their prediction models.The dynamics of the falling spacecraft can also affect the timing. Radar measurements indicate that Tiangong-1 is tumbling, about once every three minutes, said Stijn Lemmens, an analyst at the E.S.A.s space debris office in Darmstadt, Germany. But in this case, the tumbling seems to be neither hastening nor extending Tiangong-1s remaining days.Stuff of this size drops out of the sky every year or so.NASAs Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite, which weighed about 12,000 pounds, made a similar uncontrolled return to Earth in 2011, and 26 large pieces, the heaviest about 330 pounds, were expected to reach the surface. The spacecraft ended up in the Pacific Ocean.Even much larger spacecraft have fallen without hurting people. Skylab, Americas first space station, weighed nearly 10 times as much as Tiangong-1 and when it crashed in 1979, pieces landed in Western Australia without incident.When the space shuttle Columbia disintegrated during re-entry in 2003, the seven astronauts aboard were killed, but no one on the ground was hurt as more than 82,000 pieces of debris weighing 85,000 pounds showered the United States from West Texas to southwest Louisiana.Only one person is known to have been hit by space debris. In 1997, a six-inch piece of metal believed to have come from a Delta 2 rocket, brushed the shoulder of Lottie Williams, a woman in Tulsa, Oklahoma. She was not hurt.
___Is Zuckerberg willing to act boldly to fix Facebook crisis?Mark Zuckerberg says he is determined to fix Facebook, but the billionaire CEO is a study in contradictions. Praised as brilliant but stubborn, he is uniquely positioned to tackle the crisis enveloping the world's largest social network, which is under fire for allowing dark forces to exploit it, without protecting its 2.2 billion users. But is he prepared to do all that it will take?___FTC, states increase pressure on Facebook on privacyNEW YORK (AP)  U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook, as they probe whether the company's data collection practices have hurt the people who use its services. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook's privacy practices following a week of privacy scandals including allegations a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook users. Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, plunged further.___Frontier gun maker Remington seeks bankruptcy protectionRemington, the storied gun maker that began turning out flintlock rifles when there were only 19 states in the Union, has filed for bankruptcy reorganization amid years of slumping sales and legal and financial pressure over the Sandy Hook school massacre. It plans to turn over control to its creditors and continue operating. Gun sales in the U.S. have slid since the election of Donald Trump eased fears the government would crack down on firearms.___Watch it, Facebook: new EU data rules may have broad impactLONDON (AP)  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the information of millions of subscribers. The fact is, new European regulations will force him to do so by the end of May. The new rules are arguably the most significant regulation in a generation. They are an effort to catch up on all the technological advances for decades, when the last comprehensive measures were put in place.___US stocks rally; Dow surges 669, clawing back lost groundNEW YORK (AP)  News that the U.S. and China are open to negotiate to avert a trade war put investors in a buying mood Monday, giving the market its best day in more than two years and erasing about half of its huge losses last week. Technology companies accounted for much of the broad rally, which powered the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 670 points.___Judge: Less mining must be studied for No. 1 US coal regionCHEYENNE, Wyo. (AP)  A judge has ruled U.S. government officials engaged in regional planning for an area that supplies 40 percent of the nation's coal must consider reducing coal mining to fight climate change. Friday's ruling by U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Great Falls, Montana, applies to the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana. Environmentalists praised the ruling but Morris denied their request to halt mining.___South Korea agrees to further open auto market to USSEOUL, South Korea (AP)  South Korea has agreed to further open its auto market to the United States as the two countries prepare to amend their six-year-old free trade agreement. Trade Minister Kim Hyun-chong said Monday that the United States will end tariffs on South Korean pick-up trucks in 2041 instead of 2021, while South Korea will relax standards on imported U.S. vehicles. Kim said South Korea won an exemption from import tariffs on steel products.___Battle brews over fund that feeds Alaskans' yearly oil checkJUNEAU, Alaska (AP)  A battle is brewing over earnings from Alaska's oil wealth fund, which provides annual payouts for residents in the state. Lawmakers are faced with limited options for filling a budget deficit that has deepened amid years of low oil prices. They're considering dipping into fund earnings to help pay the state's bills. Major proposals include changing how Alaskans' annual checks from fund earnings are calculated. The check amount has been capped the past two years, fueling anger among some.___Comptroller: Wall Street average bonus topped $184K in 2017ALBANY, N.Y. (AP)  New York state's top elected fiscal officer says the average bonus paid to securities industry employees in New York City rose by 17 percent last year as Wall Street profits soared for a second consecutive year. Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli says Monday that the average bonus paid to brokers jumped to more than $184,000. Pretax profits for operations of New York Stock Exchange member firms jumped 42 percent to $24.5 billion.___The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 70.29 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,658.55. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 669.40 points, or 2.8 percent, to 24,202.60. The Dow lost more than 1,400 points last week and is still down slightly for the year.Benchmark U.S. crude fell 33 cents to settle at $65.55 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 33 cents to close at $70.12 in London.
BEIJING/SINGAPORE   China\'s crude futures kicked off to a roaring start on Monday as western traders and Chinese majors eagerly traded the world\'s newest financial oil instrument, which many expect to become a third global price benchmark alongside Brent and WTI crude.Global commodity trader and miner Glencore, and big merchants Trafigura, Freepoint Commodities and Mercuria were among the first to trade the new contract, even as concerns remain that smaller overseas investors may struggle with unfamiliar rules and complex regulation.The launch of the yuan-denominated oil futures <0#ISC:> - China\'s first commodity derivative open to foreign investors - marked the culmination of a decade-long push by the Shanghai Futures Exchange (ShFE) to give the world\'s largest energy consumer more power in pricing crude sold to Asia.China is the world\'s second-largest oil consumer and in 2017 overtook the United States as the biggest importer of crude oil. Its demand is already a key determinant of global oil prices.With major overseas traders displaying a strong appetite to punt in China\'s vast derivatives market, Shanghai\'s turnover challenged Brent volumes during Asian hours, reflecting the potential for arbitrage trade with oil markets in the United States, Europe and Oman."Whether this will have any real bearing on the other crude benchmarks, I\'m not quite sure, but traders love a new toy, so I applaud China for bringing in something that could stoke up some volatility," said Matt Stanley, a fuel broker with Freight Investor Services (FIS) in Dubai.First-day enthusiasm saw 20 million barrels of September oil changing hands in Shanghai by the 3:00 p.m. (0700 GMT) close, but it\'s not clear the pace will hold in the night session, which runs from 9:00 pm to 2:30 am, or on into coming days.The 15.4 million barrels done in Shanghai\'s 2-1/2-hour morning session initially topped the Brent May crude contract, before Europe\'s benchmark came alive around 0500 GMT <0#LCO:>."We\'ve seen already this morning it appears to be a liquid contract from the off," said David Martin, JPMorgan Chase & Co\'s Asia Pacific head of global clearing, at an event for the launch in Shanghai.(GRAPHIC: Shanghai crude oil trading kicks off to a roaring start - https://reut.rs/2I0NieE)ARBITRAGE ATTRACTIONAnalysts said western oil traders were attracted to Shanghai\'s oil contracts for the potential arbitrage between China\'s market specifics and global oil fundamentals as reflected by U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) <0#CL:> and international Brent crude futures <0#LCO:>.WTI crude is the main benchmark for U.S. crude grades and a crucial hedging tool for the U.S. oil industry. Brent is priced off of North Sea oil and is a primary value marker for Europe, Africa and Middle East crudes. Both futures contracts are commonly used by financial traders."Prices assessed at the Shanghai exchange will reflect China\'s crude supply and demand," said Sushant Gupta, research director at energy consultancy Wood Mackenzie.Despite the first-day success, the yuan-denominated trading and a blend of new rules and regulatory burdens could in the long-run hamper sustained take-up on the Shanghai International Energy Exchange (INE), executives at a dozen banks and brokers and experts involved in the launch told Reuters.Still, China offers the potential for a deep, liquid market, buoyed by an explosion of interest from mom-and-pop investors that has supported its vast commodities derivative markets from apples to iron ore in Shanghai, Zhengzhou and Dalian.The yuan-denominated contract will also help Beijing\'s  efforts to internationalise the nation\'s currency, said Woodmac\'s Gupta.WESTERN MERCHANTS ACTIVEA surprise to many was that Glencore executed Shanghai\'s first crude deal. Swiss-based commodity traders Trafigura and Mercuria, U.S.-based Freepoint, and independent refiner Shandong Wonfull were other early participants."Glencore\'s first bid reflected the high participation and enthusiasm of foreign traders for Chinese crude oil futures," said Yang Xidong, general manager of Xinhu Futures Co Ltd."We were active with Glencore today and I\'ve seen Trafigura in it and Freepoint ... We take the view that the contract is viable and adds to the crude oil trading value chain, and is here to stay," said Kevin Tan, executive vice president at Singapore-based brokerage Straits Financial Services.Straits said it brokered the first trade for Glencore and cleared the deal through Xinhu Futures. Chinese trader Unipec told Reuters it was the counterparty for the Glencore deal.The early involvement of big international traders was a morale boost to the fledging market, but state oil majors like PetroChina and Sinopec are expected to provide a significant amount of liquidity in the long-term.Unipec, trading arm of Asia\'s largest refiner Sinopec, has inked a deal with a western oil major to buy Middle East crude priced against the Shanghai futures contract, a senior company official said on Monday.This could be seen as competition to the Dubai Mercantile Exchange\'s (DME) crude futures <0#DUBSGEFS:> and potentially the assessments published by price reporting agency S&P Global Platts.Speculative retail and institutional investors also propped up the launch-day\'s liquidity, said Chen Tong, Shanghai-based senior crude analyst at First Futures."In the short-term, we believe price fluctuations will reflect domestic crude oil supply and demand. In the long run, yuan crude price will mirror the moves of Brent," he said.TALE OF THE TAPEThe most-active September <ISCU8> contract opened at 440.4 yuan ($69.78) per barrel versus a reference point of 416 yuan, jumping as high as 447.1 yuan ($70.85) in the first few minutes.The jump came after Brent futures for May delivery opened above $70 per barrel for the first time since January on expectations OPEC-leader Saudi Arabia may extend supply cuts into 2019, as well as over concern that the United States may re-introduce sanctions against Iran.At the end of afternoon session, Shanghai prices were up 3.34 percent at 430.2 yuan, with 40,656 lots traded.Brent and WTI, in contrast, were down by that time, weighed down by concerns over a looming U.S. trade dispute with China.Chinese exchanges count each side of a trade - the buy and the sell - as two lots, meaning the total oil changing hands was 20,328 lots, equal to 20.3 million barrels.(Reporting by Josephine Mason and Meng Meng in BEIJING and Henning Gloystein in SINGAPORE; Additional reporting by Ruby Lian in SHANGHAI, Aizhu Chen in BEIJING, and Roslan Khasawneh in SINGAPORE; Editing by Tom Hogue)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. A collective response to Russia, an adult film stars record ratings, and a mysterious train arrives in Beijing. Heres what you need to know:   Sixty diplomats expelled, the Seattle consulate shut.The U.S. joined European allies in kicking out Russian officials over the nerve gas poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter on British soil. Its President Trumps toughest action yet against the Kremlin. Heres how this compares with past espionage feuds.The coordinated response is a win for Britains prime minister, Theresa May, and a show of unity by NATO allies after a year of fraying ties.Separately, Mr. Trump is essentially down to a one-man legal defense team in the Russia investigation after two newly hired lawyers bowed out._____ President Trump has been quiet as two women  a pornographic film star and a Playboy model  have publicly claimed that they had affairs with him, but that doesnt mean hes happy about it. (Melania Trump, too, has been silent.)In a 60 Minutes interview, the porn actress Stormy Daniels, above, said that she and her daughter were threatened in Las Vegas by a man who told her: Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.The actress said the threat influenced her decision to accept $130,000 for her silence about the alleged affair. She is now suing to get out of that agreement.(The 60 Minutes interview drew 22 million viewers, the highest ratings for the program in almost a decade.)_____ An absolute win-win. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin hailed President Trumps first major trade deal: South Korea won an exemption from U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs by agreeing to import more American cars and reducing its steel exports.The deal soothed fears, at least for the moment, about a global trade war. A bigger battle looms over Made in China 2025, Beijings plan to dominate advanced industries._____ Is Kim Jong-un in Beijing?The question emerged after a video showed an old-style green train  similar to one used by used by North Koreas leaders  arriving in the Chinese capital amid high security.There was no official pronouncement from China or North Korea. But the Japanese broadcaster NTV showed footage of what it said was the train, raising the possibility that a powerful envoy or even Mr. Kim himself may be visiting.Journalists also spotted a military honor guard welcoming a convoy that entered the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, above, where top North Korean leaders have been known to stay._____ Hong Kongs housing market is so tight that nano flats, smaller than 200 square feet, are all the rage. (A parking spot just sold for $664,000.)The city is considering some other unusual proposals to ease the squeeze: turning drain pipes into tiny apartments, above, and warehousing people on cruise ships before they get permanent shelter on artificial islands. Uber is out of Southeast Asia. The U.S. company agreed to sell its ride-hailing and food-delivery business in the region to Grab, a rival in Singapore. Uber sold its China operations to Didi in 2016 and retreated from Russia in 2017. Facebook stock fell as much as 6.5 percent after the Federal Trade Commission confirmed it was investigating the companys privacy practices. Remington, the U.S. firearm company founded in 1816, filed for bankruptcy amid mounting debt and slow sales. Alibaba and Ford unveiled an unstaffed car vending machine  five-stories tall and containing 42 cars of various models  in Guangzhou, China. U.S. stocks rose sharply on news of the U.S.-South Korea trade deal. Heres a snapshot of global markets. In Russia, emergency exits were blocked and a security guard had switched off the fire alarm in a shopping mall in Siberia that burned on Sunday, killing at least 64 people, including many children. [The New York Times] Malaysia is considering an anti-fake news bill, with those convicted of disseminating false content facing up to 10 years in prison. [BBC] A U.S. water slide that decapitated a 10-year-old boy violated basic engineering standards, and park officials knew it posed serious dangers, an indictment said. [The New York Times] In Japan, home to the worlds oldest population, prisons have become a haven for lonely older women in search of community and stability. [Bloomberg] A pothole epidemic has turned the streets of Rome, the city that built an empire on its roads, into an embarrassing mess. [The New York Times] An 2,500-year-old Egyptian coffin that had been stored at Sydney University for 150 years was found to be filled with human remains, shocking archaeologists who thought it was empty. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Is it time to give up on fish oil? Not all supplements carry the same health benefits. Whether or not you have kids, creating a will is about your legacy. Recipe of the day: Try a different kind of pizza topped with caramelized onions, figs, bacon and blue cheese. I feel Im in Japan, Vincent van Gogh wrote to his brother, although hed never been there. The Dutch painter, in fact, became obsessed by Japanese art. An exhibition in Amsterdam explores how that fascination shaped his work, like Almond Blossom, above. Is it love if its not on Instagram? In an Op-Ed, a writer questions  and laments  the blurring of peoples personal and online lives. Add your voice: Were preparing our coverage of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who connected his fight for civil rights in the U.S. to the global reality of racism and poverty. Wed like to hear what he means to you.On this day in 1915, Mary Mallon, nicknamed Typhoid Mary, was placed in quarantine for the second time in New York City. Though she never displayed any symptoms of the disease, she would be confined for the rest of her life.In 1906, health officials tied Ms. Mallon to outbreaks of typhoid fever in seven wealthy families for whom she had worked as a cook.She was confirmed to be a carrier of the disease and quarantined. Doctors released her in 1910 under the condition that she no longer work as a cook. Shortly after, she disappeared.Ms. Mallon was rediscovered in 1915 by officials investigating a typhoid outbreak in a Manhattan hospital. She had been working there as a cook under an assumed name.She was then quarantined for 23 years, until her death in 1938 from the effects of a stroke.During her life, the public was fascinated by Ms. Mallon, above. She often appeared in news stories and cartoons, with one depicting her frying skulls in a pan. She was frustrated by the attention, and by her captivity, once describing herself as a peep show for everybody.Her case is often referenced during public health crises, such as the Ebola epidemic, in debates over the power of officials to quarantine people they believe are disease carriers.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
BRUSSELS   The European Union began a study on Monday on whether the import tariffs imposed by U.S. President Donald Trump warranted action to prevent predominantly Asian producers flooding Europe with steel.Trump\'s tariffs, of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminium, came into force last Friday, although the European Union and six other countries secured temporary exemptions.The EU is concerned about whether steel manufacturers subject to the U.S. tariffs will divert their product to Europe, leading to a surge of imports.Its study, which may last up to nine months, could lead the EU to impose its own quotas or tariffs on steel, including stainless steel and pipes, to prevent harm to its own industry.The tariffs or quotas would have to apply to all countries, meaning leading exporters China, India, Russia, South Korea and Turkey would be hit. U.S. steel makes up less than 1 percent of EU steel imports."The information currently available to the European Commission... has revealed that imports of certain steel products have recently increased sharply showing that there is sufficient evidence that these trends in imports appear to call for safeguards measures," the European Commission said in a document published in the EU official journal on Monday.China\'s commerce ministry said it was willing to strengthen coordination with the European Union to cope with chaos caused by the U.S metals tariffs, adding that protective measures would only make the situation worse.The Commission said total imports of steel had increased to 29.3 million tonnes in 2017 from 17.8 million tonnes in 2013, largely due to global overcapacity and measures taken by third countries to limit dumping.For some products, it said, the industry was in a fragile condition and vulnerable to further increases in imports, which was likely due to trade defence measures, including the recent imposition of tariffs by the United States."The investigation will examine the situation of the products concerned, including the situation of each of the product categories individually, also based on the most recent developments, such as any trade diversion resulting from the US measures," the Commission said.It has given interested parties 21 days to complete questionnaires or submit information to aid its inquiry.The European Union itself has until May 1 to secure a permanent exemption from U.S. metals tariffs.Europe says it wants to avert a trade war but the Commission has proposed a series of measures if the White House hits EU producers, including a challenge at the World Trade Organization and import duties on U.S. products such as orange juice, bourbon and Harley-Davidson Inc motor-bikes.(Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
PARIS   The United States has agreed to double its planned 2018 budget contribution to the ITER project to build a prototype nuclear fusion reactor, avoiding delays to the international project this year, its director said on Monday.Washington cut the United States\' 2017 contribution from a scheduled $105 million to $50 million and had planned to cut its 2018 contribution from a scheduled $120 million to $63 million.But in last-minute talks about the U.S. 2018 budget last week, the U.S. Congress approved a draft Omnibus Spending Bill with a $122 million in-kind contribution for ITER, which President Donald Trump signed into law on Friday, ITER said."This is a very positive signal ... it will prevent ITER having to announce project delays in 2018," ITER Director-General Bernard Bigot told Reuters in a telephone interview.He added that if the United States would make up for missing cash contributions of about $120 million for the 2016-18 period, ITER would remain on track in future years.The International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) project is a cooperation between Europe, the United States, China, India, Japan, Russia and South Korea to build a prototype fusion reactor to generate electricity in a process similar to the nuclear fusion that powers the sun.With an estimated cost of about 20 billion euros ($25 billion), the project is more than halfway towards the first test of its super-heated plasma by 2025 and first full-power fusion by 2035.ITER member countries contributions to the project are not mainly in cash but in kind, as they finance the manufacturing of ITER components via their own national companies. These parts are then shipped to France and assembled on ITER\'s Cadarache, southern France site.But there is also a cash contribution, which for the U.S. was 30-32 million euros per year in the 2016 to 2018 period, or about 100 million euros, Bigot said."We hope that at least maybe a small part of the U.S. 2018 contribution could be in cash so as to give a political signal to the other ITER members," said Bigot, who was appointed ITER director in 2015.ITER\'s main U.S. supplier is California-based General Atomics, which is building the project\'s central solenoid, an 18-metre tall pillar-like magnet that will be one of the first components to be installed by 2020.The United States has given about $1 billion to ITER so far, and had been planning to contribute an additional $500 million through 2025.($1 = 0.8037 euros)(Reporting by Geert De Clercq; Editing by Catherine Evans and Ken Ferris)
Was Americas war in Vietnam a noble struggle against Communist aggression, a tragic intervention in a civil conflict, or an imperialist counterrevolution to crush a movement of national liberation? Those competing interpretations ignited fiery debates in the 1960s and remain unresolved today. How we name and define this most controversial of American wars is not a narrow scholarly exercise, but profoundly shapes public memory of its meaning and ongoing significance to American national identity and foreign policy.During the war years, Americas leaders insisted that military force was necessary to defend a sovereign nation  South Vietnam  from external Communist aggression. As President Lyndon B. Johnson put it in 1965, The first reality is that North Vietnam has attacked the independent nation of South Vietnam. Its object is total conquest.Even more disturbing, Johnson quickly added (following a script written by his predecessors Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy), the Communists in Vietnam were supported and guided by the Soviet Union and China. Therefore, the war in South Vietnam was not an isolated, local conflict, irrelevant to American national security, but rather one that was inseparable from the nations highest priority  the Cold War struggle to contain Communism around the globe. Further raising the stakes, policymakers warned that if South Vietnam fell to Communism, neighboring countries would inevitably fall in turn, one after another, like a row of dominoes.Three decades later, Robert McNamara, a key architect of the Vietnam War who served as defense secretary for both Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, renounced those wartime claims  the very ones he and others had invoked to justify the war. In two books, In Retrospect (1995) and Argument Without End (2000), McNamara conceded that the United States had been terribly wrong to intervene in Vietnam. He attributed the failure to a lack of knowledge and judgment. If only he had understood the fervor of Vietnamese nationalism, he wrote, if only he had known that Hanoi was not the pawn of Beijing or Moscow, if only he had realized that the domino theory was wrong, he might have persuaded his presidential bosses to withdraw from Vietnam. Millions of lives would have been saved. If only.In fact, however, in the 1960s, when McNamara advocated massive military escalation in Vietnam, he simply rejected or ignored any evidence that contradicted Cold War orthodoxy. Its not as if contrary views were unavailable. In the work of the scholar-journalist Bernard Fall, the pages of I. F. Stones Weekly, speeches at university teach-ins and antiwar rallies and countless other venues, critics pointed out that after World War II the United States made a clear choice to support the French effort to re-establish its colonial rule in Indochina, and eventually assumed the bulk of Frances cost for the first Indochina War. It should have been no surprise, therefore, that Vietnamese revolutionaries perceived the United States as a neocolonial power when it committed its own military forces in the next war.Moreover, critics argued, the primary roots of opposition to the American-backed government in Saigon were indigenous and deep rooted, not just in North Vietnam, but throughout the South.Indeed, from the late 1950s through the mid-1960s the bulk of Communist-led fighting was carried out by southern guerrillas of the National Liberation Front, known to its enemies as the Vietcong. Only after the war was well underway did large units from North Vietnam arrive on the southern front. Antiwar opponents also challenged the claim that South Vietnam was an independent nation established by the Geneva Accords of 1954. Those agreements called for a temporary partition of Vietnam to be shortly followed by a nationwide election to choose a single leader for a unified Vietnam. When it became clear to both Saigon and Washington that the Communist leader Ho Chi Minh would be the overwhelming victor, the South Vietnamese government of Ngo Dinh Diem, with American support, decided to cancel the election.Thus began a two-decade failed effort to build a permanent country called South Vietnam. The government in Saigon was never a malleable puppet of the United States, but it was nonetheless wholly dependent on American military and economic support to survive against its enemies, including many non-Communist parties and factions in the South.Armed with these criticisms, many opponents of American policy in the 1960s described Vietnam as a civil war  not like the relatively clear-cut North-South division of the American Civil War, but a nationwide struggle of Communist-led forces of the South and North against the American-backed government in the South. By 1966, this analysis was even embraced by some mainstream politicians, including Senator William Fulbright, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Senator Eugene McCarthy, who ran as an antiwar presidential candidate in 1968. Both men called attention to the South Vietnamese civil war to emphasize the strength of the southern insurgency and the failure of the Saigon government to gain the broad support of its own people.By 1972, the idea that Vietnam posed a threat to Cold War America was so discredited, it sometimes sounded as if Americas only remaining war aim was to get back its P.O.W.s (President Richard Nixon bizarrely claimed that Hanoi was using them as negotiating pawns). Even more mind-boggling were Nixons historic 1972 trips to Beijing and Moscow. Many Americans wondered how Nixon could offer toasts of peace to Mao Zedong and Leonid Brezhnev while still waging war in Vietnam. As the journalist Jonathan Schell put it, If these great powers were not, after all, the true foe, then the war in Vietnam really was a civil war in a small country, as its opponents had always said, and the United States had no business taking part in it.But alongside the civil war interpretation, a more radical critique developed  the view that Americas enemy in Vietnam was engaged in a long-term war for national liberation and independence, first from the French and then the United States. According to this position, the war was best understood not as a Cold War struggle between East and West, or a Vietnamese civil war, but as an anticolonial struggle, similar to dozens of others that erupted throughout the Third World in the wake of World War II. When the French were defeated by Vietnamese revolutionaries (despite enormous American support), the United States stepped in directly to wage a counterrevolutionary war against an enemy determined to achieve full and final independence from foreign control.This interpretation was shared by many on the antiwar left, including Daniel Ellsberg, the once-hawkish defense analyst who turned so strongly against the war that he was willing to sabotage his career by making public 7,000 pages of classified documents about the history of the Vietnam War, the so-called Pentagon Papers. Ellsberg made his argument most succinctly in the 1974 documentary Hearts and Minds.The name for a conflict in which you are opposing a revolution is counterrevolution, he said. A war in which one side is entirely financed and equipped and supported by foreigners is not a civil war. The question used to be, he added, might it be possible that we were on the wrong side in the Vietnamese war. We werent on the wrong side; we are the wrong side.In the decades since 1975, all three major interpretations have persisted. Some writers and historians have embraced President Ronald Reagans view that the war was a noble cause that might have been won. That position has failed to persuade most specialists in the field, in large part because it greatly exaggerates the military and political virtues and success of the United States and the government of South Vietnam. It also falls short because it depends on counterfactual claims that victory would have been achieved if only the United States had extended its support for Diem (instead of greenlighting his overthrow), or tried a different military strategy, or done a better job winning hearts and minds. However, the war as it was actually conducted by the United States and its allies was a disaster by every measure.In recent decades, a number of historians  particularly younger scholars trained in Vietnamese and other languages  have developed various versions of the civil war interpretation. Some of them view the period after the French defeat in 1954 as post-colonial, a time in which long-brewing internal conflicts between competing versions of Vietnamese nationalism came to a head. As the historian Jessica Chapman of Williams College puts it, The Vietnam War was, at its core, a civil war greatly exacerbated by foreign intervention. Others have described it as a civil war that became internationalized.While these scholars have greatly enhanced our knowledge of the complexity and conflict in Vietnamese history, politics and culture, they dont, in my view, assign enough responsibility to the United States for causing and expanding the war as a neocolonial power.Lets try a thought experiment. What if our own Civil War bore some resemblance to the Vietnamese civil war? For starters, we would have to imagine that in 1860 a global superpower  say Britain  had strongly promoted Southern secession, provided virtually all of the funding for the ensuing war and dedicated its vast military to the battle. We must also imagine that in every Southern state, local, pro-Union forces took up arms against the Confederacy. Despite enormous British support, Union forces prevailed. What would Americans call such a war? Most, I think, would remember it as the Second War of Independence. Perhaps African-Americans would call it the First War of Liberation. Only former Confederates and the British might recall it as a civil war.I would reverse Chapmans formula and say that the Vietnam War was, at its core, an American war that exacerbated Vietnamese divisions and internationalized the conflict. It is true, of course, that many Vietnamese opposed the Communist path to national liberation, but no other nationalist party or faction proved capable of gaining enough support to hold power. Without American intervention, it is hard to imagine that South Vietnam would have come into being or, if it did, that it would have endured for long.Moreover, no other foreign nation deployed millions of troops to South Vietnam (although the United States did pressure or pay a handful of other nations, Australia and South Korea most notably, to send smaller military forces). And no other foreign nation or opponent dropped bombs (eight million tons!) on South and North Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. The introduction of that staggering lethality was the primary driver of a war that cost three million lives, half of them civilians.If we continue to excuse American conduct in Vietnam as a well-intentioned, if tragic, intervention rather than a purposeful assertion of imperial power, we are less likely to challenge current war managers who have again mired us in apparently endless wars based on false or deeply misleading pretexts. Just as in the Vietnam era, American leaders have ordered troops to distant lands based on boundless abstractions (the global war on terror instead of the global threat of international Communism). And once again, their mission is to prop up governments that demonstrate no capacity to gain the necessary support of their people. Once again, the United States has waged brutal counterinsurgencies guaranteed to maim, kill or displace countless civilians. It has exacerbated international violence and provoked violent retaliation.Our leaders, then and now, have insisted that the United States is the greatest force for good in the world that wants nothing for itself, only to defeat terror and bring peace, stability and self-determination to other lands. The evidence does not support such a claim. We need a new, cleareyed vision of our global conduct. A more critical appraisal of the past is one place to start.
BEIJING   Asian stocks fell for a third day Monday amid mounting fears about U.S.-Chinese trade tensions.KEEPING SCORE: The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.2 percent to 3,115.18 points and Tokyo\'s Nikkei 225 lost 0.8 percent to 20,445.03. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng lost 0.2 percent to 30,245.27 and Australia\'s S&P-ASX 200 retreated 0.6 percent to 5,787.60. South Korea\'s Kospi gained 0.2 percent to 2,422.63 while benchmarks in New Zealand, Taiwan and Southeast Asia fell.WALL STREET: Stocks had their worst week in two years as investors fled technology and bank stocks due to fears they might be hurt if Beijing responds to a U.S. tariff hike on Chinese imports by raising its own duties on American goods. Facebook fell 13.9 percent, wiping out $68 billion of market value, as outrage mounted over its handling of user data. The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index fell 2.1 percent to 2,588.26. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 1.8 percent to 23,533.20 points. The Nasdaq composite shed 2.4 percent to 6,992.67.TRADE FEARS: China\'s new economy czar, Vice Premier Liu He, told U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in a phone call that Beijing was ready to defend itself in an escalating tariff dispute, according to the Chinese government. President Donald Trump on Thursday approved possible higher duties on $60 billion worth of Chinese goods in a dispute over technology policy. On Friday, Beijing released a $3 billion list of U.S. goods targeted for possible retaliation over an earlier U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum imports. That has prompted fears the spat might depress trade worldwide and set back a global economic recovery. China has yet to say how it might respond to Trump\'s latest tariff approval, prompting hopes for a settlement.ANALYST\'S TAKE: "Markets are caught in conflicting currents. The trade tensions imperil growth," said Michael McCarthy of CMC Markets in a report. "There is hope risk assets may stabilize," said McCarthy. "Despite an extensive stream of tweets over the weekend President Trump declined to mention trade matters. This could be a sign that the threatened barriers are a negotiating position rather than a line in the sand."CHINESE FINANCE: China\'s newly appointed central bank chief announced sweeping plans to rein in surging debt and curb financial risks. Speaking at an economic forum, Yi Gang said high debt at state-owned companies and local governments and rising household borrowing are "still a challenge." But he expressed confidence Beijing has the experience and resources to mitigate risk. The ruling Communist Party has made controlling risk a priority after a run-up in debt prompted rating agencies last year to cut Beijing\'s government credit rating.ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude gained 10 cents to $65.98 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract jumped $1.58 on Friday to close at $65.88. Brent crude, used to price international oils, gained 18 cents to $69.99 in London. It rose $1.43 the previous session to $69.81.CURRENCY: The dollar gained to 104.95 yen from Friday\'s 104.72 yen. The euro advanced to $1.2368 from $1.2352.
News that the U.S. and China are open to negotiating to avert a trade war put investors in a buying mood Monday, giving the market its best day in more than two years and erasing about half of its huge losses last week.Technology companies accounted for much of the broad rally, which powered the Dow Jones industrial average to a gain of nearly 670 points. Microsoft was the biggest gainer in the 30-company Dow and the Standard & Poor\'s 500 index, climbing nearly 8 percent.Banks also notched solid gains, benefiting from a pickup in bond yields. Retailers, consumer goods companies and health care stocks were among the big gainers.The market rebound followed the worst week for U.S. stocks in two years as investors traded last week\'s jitters for a more optimistic outlook on trade, and an opportunity to buy."Certainly nothing\'s settled," said Rob Haworth, senior investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "Investors are still viewing this as a glass half-full market and a constructive economy, so it\'s not surprising to see them buy on value here, buy on dips to try to rebuild their positions."The Standard & Poor\'s 500 index rose 70.29 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,658.55. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 669.40 points, or 2.8 percent, to 24,202.60. The Dow lost more than 1,400 points last week and is still down slightly for the year.The Nasdaq added 227.88 points, or 3.3 percent, to 7,220.54. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks picked up 33.63 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,543.72.All told, the Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq posted their best one-day gains since August 2015, making up slightly more than half of the market\'s losses on Thursday and Friday.Global stock markets fell sharply last week amid fears of a trade war after President Donald Trump announced duties on $60 billion worth of Chinese goods in a dispute over technology policy. On Friday, Beijing released a $3 billion list of U.S. goods targeted for possible retaliation over an earlier U.S. tariff hike on steel and aluminum imports. That prompted fears the spat might depress trade worldwide and set back the global economic recovery.Those fears eased Monday, after China\'s government said it is open to negotiating with Washington. That announcement followed a news report indicating that U.S. officials have submitted a list of market-opening requests.A foreign ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, didn\'t confirm the report by The Wall Street Journal but said at a regular briefing, "Our door for dialogue and discussion is always open."China has yet to say how it might respond to Trump\'s tariff proposals. That didn\'t appear to dampen investors\' resurgent optimism Monday."This declaration of tariffs on the president\'s part was his typical opening salvo into a negotiation process," said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading & derivatives at Charles Schwab. "He\'s done these things in the past, and now it looks like the markets are telling us, \'Yep, that\'s what\'s happening.\'"Meanwhile, a top trade negotiator for South Korea said Monday that the nation has agreed to further open its auto market to the United States as the two countries prepare to amend their six-year-old trade agreement.Technology companies recouped some of the sector\'s big losses last week. Microsoft rose $6.60, or 7.6 percent, to $93.78.Financial stocks surged as bond yields rose. Higher yields are good for banks, because they drive up interest rates on mortgages and other loans, making them more profitable for lenders. Bank of America added $1.27, or 4.4 percent, to $30.44.The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.85 percent from 2.81 percent late Friday.Lowe\'s climbed 6.6 percent after the home-improvement retailer said Chairman and CEO Robert Niblock is retiring. The stock gained $5.53 to $89.30.Facebook ended barely higher after erasing an early slide triggered by new questions about collecting phone numbers and text messages from Android devices. The Federal Trade Commission confirmed Monday that it is investigating the social media giant\'s privacy practices, including whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. The stock eked out a gain of 67 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $160.06.Traders also had their eye on the latest corporate deal news Monday.Finish Line vaulted $3.28, or 31.1 percent, to $13.83 after the sporting goods retailer agreed to be bought by JD Sports Fashion PLC.USG Corp. jumped $6.52, or 19.5 percent, to $40.03 after the building products company rejected an offer worth $42 per share from Knauf.Benchmark U.S. crude fell 33 cents to settle at $65.55 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 33 cents to close at $70.12 in London.In other energy futures trading, heating oil was little changed at $2.02 a gallon. Wholesale gasoline lost 2 cents to $2.01 a gallon. Natural gas added 3 cents to $2.62 per 1,000 cubic feet.Gold rose $5.10 to $1,355 an ounce. Silver gained 10 cents to $16.68 an ounce. Copper slipped 2 cents to $2.97 a pound.The dollar rose to 105.22 yen from 104.82 yen on Friday. The euro strengthened to $1.2455 from $1.2367.In Europe, Germany\'s DAX fell 0.8 percent, while France\'s CAC-40 lost 0.6 percent. Britain\'s FTSE 100 shed 0.5 percent. In Asia, Tokyo\'s Nikkei 225 added 0.7 percent, while Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng rose 0.7 percent. Sydney\'s S&P-ASX 200 fell 0.5 percent. Seoul\'s Kospi gained 0.8 percent. India\'s Sensex rose 0.3 percent.
HONG KONG   In the Philippines, where basketball monopolises the airwaves and ageing boxer Manny Pacquiao is still king, a small piece of football history could be made on Tuesday evening.At the rundown Rizal Memorial Stadium in the Malate district of Manila, Thomas Dooley will lead the Philippines into their biggest ever game when they take on Tajikistan in the final round of qualifying for next year\'s Asian Cup finals.A draw will be enough to take the Azkals - \'Street Dogs\' in Tagalog - to January\'s finals in the United Arab Emirates and seal the nation\'s first-ever qualification in the 62-year history of the continental championship."Obviously it\'s a very important game for us," said Dooley,  the former United States international defender now in his fifth year as Philippines head coach."We never expected it would come back to the last day. I hoped we could have closed it down a little bit earlier, but that happens sometimes."We have a home game and we cannot afford to lose, so we have to get a point or a win and then we qualify."I\'m trying to get the pressure away from the players and I\'m just trying to get them focused on writing history for the Philippines."Qualification for the Asian Cup finals, which have been expanded from 16 to 24 teams for next year\'s edition, would give the game a boost in a country where the sporting landscape is overwhelmingly dominated by basketball.The Philippines, however, occupies a unique position within the fabric of football in Asia.The country played in the first international fixture on Asian soil when they won the opening game of the 1913 Far Eastern Games against China.In an even less likely claim to footballing fame, former Philippines international Paulinho Alcantara was Barcelona\'s all-time leading goalscorer until Lionel Messi surpassed his tally almost four years ago.Manila was also the birthplace of the Asian Football Confederation in 1954 but, despite those deep connections, the Philippines has little track record of which to speak.DIASPORA TAPPEDThe nation has never qualified for the continental championship since its inception in 1956 and no club from the country has ever qualified for the group stages of the elite  Asian Champions League.Over the last decade, however, there have been some encouraging signs as officials have tapped into the country\'s vast diaspora to enhance hopes of turning the Philippines into a regional force.Brothers Phil and James Younghusband, both former trainees at Chelsea, were among the first and they were soon followed by goalkeeper Neil Etheridge, currently first choice goalkeeper with Cardiff City in the second tier of English football.In 2010, they, and others, helped the Philippines reach the semi-finals of the AFF Suzuki Cup - a regional tournament played amongst South East Asian nations - and since then expectations have grown.There have been ups and downs along the way, with the Philippines narrowly missing out on a place at the 2015 Asian Cup finals when they were defeated in the final of the AFC Challenge Cup by Palestine.Now, though, they stand again on the verge of qualification and a draw against the Central Asians will be enough to send them to the United Arab Emirates next January.Dooley is confident securing a place at the finals can be a springboard to even greater achievements."You have players in Germany playing in the first division who might have a chance to play for Sweden or Denmark instead of playing for the Philippines because they\'re qualifying for the European championships or the World Cup," he added."They want to be there. What do we have to offer? A beautiful country and playing for your country, but we need more."But if we get to the Asian Cup and we are in the top 100 in the world and are more visible and people are talking about the Philippines and what\'s going on, then when those players are making those decisions they will say: I want to go."We have lined up players already that would like to come and they are waiting. Waiting for what? Qualifying for the Asian Cup is very interesting for them."That could be the spark and it will spread in all directions. The potential is there, we just need to have the plan."(Reporting by Michael Church, Editing by Nick Mulvenney)
TOKYO   Japan\'s first lady, Akie Abe, once known mainly for embracing progressive causes that put her at odds with her conservative spouse, is now in the hot seat as doubts revive about a murky land sale to a nationalist school to which she had ties.The daughter of a confectionary magnate, Abe has tried to carve out a U.S.-style public "First Lady" role in a land where political wives typically stay in the shadows. But that approach comes with risks, acquaintances and experts say."Her ideas and those of other wives of prime ministers are different," said Yu Toyonaga, head of a non-profit organization promoting organic rice, who has done volunteer work with Akie Abe. "Rather than being a woman who is \'useful\' within a male-dominated society, she wants to interact ... as an autonomous person."Opposition parties are demanding she testify in parliament about her ties to Moritomo Gakuen, the nationalist school operator whose deeply discounted purchase of state-owned land is at the heart of a suspected cronyism scandal and possible cover-up that has sliced Prime Minister Shinzo Abe\'s support ratings.The finance ministry admitted on March 12 that it had altered documents about the deal, including removing references to Akie Abe. Her husband has denied he or his wife intervened in the sale or that he ordered a cover-up.The prime minister is opposed to her testifying, but 62 percent of respondents to a Nikkei business daily poll published on Monday said she should answer questions in parliament. The survey showed Abe\'s support sank to 42 percent while those opposed to his cabinet jumped to 49 percent.Akie Abe, 55, has made waves since her husband returned to office in 2012 for a second term with activities that include taking part in an LGBT rights parade, opposing nuclear power, and visiting protesters against a planned U.S. military facility on Okinawa - all positions that resonate with liberals.She also runs a tiny organic restaurant and has spoken in favor of legalizing marijuana for medical use.PARADOXICAL VIEWSSuch progressive views won her the nickname "domestic opposition," and helped soften Shinzo Abe\'s own hawkish image.Akie Abe has also, however, at times publicly aligned more closely with her husband\'s conservative views.She has visited Tokyo\'s Yasukuni Shrine for war dead, seen by China and South Korea as a symbol of Japan\'s past militarism because it also honors World War Two leaders convicted as war criminals by an Allied tribunal.Abe visited Yasukuni once in December 2013 but has since stayed away to avoid angering Beijing and Seoul.Until the scandal broke last year, Akie Abe was set to become honorary principal of an elementary school that Moritomo Gakuen planned to open in western Japan on the discounted land. She also visited a kindergarten run by Moritomo whose curriculum had echoes of pre-war nationalist education centered on the emperor.Those who know Abe see nothing surprising in her holding seemingly paradoxical views. "She doesn\'t act based on theory or logic, but from the heart," said non-profit president Toyonaga.Since the Moritomo scandal burst onto the political scene this month, she has not commented directly on the matter.Akie Abe has been criticized for her seeming  clueless about the situation in which she finds herself.On the evening of March 9 - the day media reported police were investigating as a possible suicide the death of a finance official at the local bureau handling the land deal - Akie Abe attended a party hosted by a Japanese celebrity, according to a photo posted on the celebrity\'s Instagram account, local media reported. The photo does not now appear on that Instagram feed.Also on March 9, she posted on Facebook photos of herself smiling at an International Women\'s Day art fair the previous day. Some comments posted in response called her "thoughtless" and a "murderer," while other expressed support.Some critics have suggested she should lay low now."Many people are fascinated by Mrs. Akie\'s free-style life that doesn\'t fit the mold of previous first ladies," reporter Makiko Takita, a woman, wrote in the conservative Sankei newspaper."But now the administration is in a tight spot and her inappropriate words and actions are ... pulling the rug out from under it," Takita added. "This is overstepping the bounds towards the prime minister\'s wife, but wouldn\'t it be a good idea to restrain your activities?"(reporting by Linda Sieg; Editing by Gerry Doyle)
The art comes from London, Paris, Hong Kong and New York, of course  but also from Yogyakarta, Zug and Cluj. Visitors to this years Art Basel Hong Kong  can count on seeing almost any kind of contemporary art their hearts desire, from galleries representing 32 countries and territories.There are definite signs of unpredictability. The Iranian artist Sam Samiee, who has chronicled the grisly history of crucifixion, is showing a playful multistyle painting collection (Dastans Basement, Tehran). Dora Budor, the Brooklyn-based Croatian photographer, who recently sent costumed Leonardo DiCaprio look-alikes into an art-fair crowd, is showing photographs of elderly women (Antenna Space, Shanghai). For Li Jingxiong, boiled plastic foam is the new art medium (Hadrien de Montferrand, Beijing).But certain themes and trends keep cropping up.[READ MORE: A Worldwide Focus on Hong Kong for Art Basel]When Yoko Ono created Mirror Image for the 2017 Venice Biennale, she covered a rooms walls with mirrors of various styles and sizes. Visitors were asked to share their thoughts. In a new installation, Mirror Image (for Hong Kong), shown by the Parisian gallery Lelong and Company, theres just one mirror (large and oval). The instructions read: Look into the mirror and see yourself. Write down what you see. Paper and pen are provided.Sophia Al-Maria, a Qatari-American performance artist, is presenting Cookie Mirror, a video installation, via the London gallery Project Native Informant. The actress Bai Ling performs a monologue surrounded by skinny panels of glass that fragment her image, an effect inspired by, among other things, the climactic mirror-maze scene in Orson Welless The Lady From Shanghai.Galleria Continua of Beijing is showing the work of Anish Kapoor, the Indian-born London sculptor known best for steel and resin pieces like Random Triangle Mirror and Sky Mirror. The trend must be strong in Germany, too. At least three Berlin galleries  Barbara Wien, Socit and Neugerriemschneider  are presenting light sculptures and mirrorscapes.Colin McCahon is the star of the Gow Langsford Gallery (Auckland, New Zealand) booth. Postwar abstract Australasian paintings by Mr. McCahon (1919-87) address life, death, spirituality and the land, but they also touch on Maori and settler politics. The artist grew up in a tiny New Zealand town, was influenced by the Abstract Expressionists and went on to enormous pieces on unstretched canvas. The Urewera Triptych (1975), his most important work, makes a special appearance here.Even for Sydney galleries like Roslyn Oxley9, diversity is a central topic. In the Discoveries sector, the indigenous artist Nyapanyapa Yunupingu will be showing her Gana (self), a sculpture-installation that includes totemic bark paintings. In the Galleries sector, there are Anglo-Australians who focus on indigenous culture, like Tracey Moffatt, a Brisbane-born photographer and videographer.While some New Zealanders call for a new isolationism, the Auckland gallery Michael Lett reflects on the countrys encounters with the effects of refugee crises, rising sea levels and other 21st-century phenomena. The Berlin-based, Auckland-born Zac Langdon-Pole offers an unusual interpretation of passports  nine small sculptures made of paper nautilus shells.Dont tell the Chinese artist Tan Ping that a painting is supposed to stop where the canvas does. It goes beyond the canvas and right onto the wall, Carrie Shen of the Leo Gallery in Hong Kong explained. The result of this process is different every time, from one location to another. The technique is called overspreading, and the project that introduced it is called The Certainty of Uncertainty. When Tan Pings acrylics are hung in their new spot in Hong Kong, he will make a second creation there, influenced by the space, the environment and his mental state that day.Dont tell Ulla von Brandenburg, whose work celebrates the theater world, that audiences are supposed to stay in front of 7 Curtains. Le rideau a deux cts, the Paris-based artist told Le Figaro in 2014. The curtain has two sides. The idea in her installation is to step behind the curtains and find yourself in the wings, a performer by position if not by action. Pilar Corrias of London is a co-presenter with Meyer Riegger, which is in Karlsruhe, Germany, the artists hometown.And apparently no one told Chou Yu-Cheng that there should be limits to installation titles. The Edouard Malingue Gallery of Hong Kong is showing his Refresh, Sacrifice, New Hygiene, Infection, Clean, Robot, Air, Housekeeping, www.ayibang.com, Cigarette, Dyson, Modern People. One of the installations collections consists of gleaming white plates and bowls the size of bookcases and giant white chopsticks that could function as battering rams. The artist, who lives and works in Taipei, Taiwan, is also blurring boundaries between formalism and free verse, preparation and presentation, the poetic and the mundane.Some Indian galleries at the fair seem to lament changing times. Subodh Gupta misses the old days when delivery men known as dabbawallas used wheelbarrows to take home-cooked lunches in tiffin boxes to work sites (and most workers didnt order from restaurants online). His installation, Start. Stop., shown by the Arario Gallery of Seoul, South Korea, is a slowly moving sushi conveyor belt bearing pots and tiffin containers.Vivek Vilasini misses clean air. Some studies have concluded that the toxic smog in New Delhi is the equivalent of smoking as many as 45 cigarettes a day. An Indian-born conceptual artist, Mr. Vilasini responded with City  Fifth Investigation, leaving 31 thin sheets of Tibetan rice paper in a roof garden atop a three-story building downtown, removing one per day and using a fixative to preserve the buildup. Mr. Vilasini, shown by the Sakshi Gallery of Mumbai, is the same artist who painted Last Supper Gaza (2009).Others are looking at future, present and past. Visitors will see an android-like Rorschach blot and a robot pointer hand in the project from Galleryske of Bangalore. The Mumbai gallery TARQ is presenting the urban-architecture-influenced work of Vishwa Shroff, including pieces from her Partywall series (gold leaf and ink on paper). And Jhaveri Contemporary is showing the Pakistani artist Ali Kazims landscapes, near Lahore, a city founded well before A.D. 1000.
CAIRO   Here are some key events from more than seven years of turmoil and transition in Egypt, leading up to presidential election on March 26-28:Feb. 11, 2011: Autocrat Hosni Mubarak steps down after 18 days of nationwide protests against his nearly 30-year rule. The military takes over, dissolving parliament and suspending the constitution after the uprising leaves hundreds of protesters dead in clashes with security forces.Nov. 28, 2011-Feb. 15, 2012: The Muslim Brotherhood wins nearly half the seats in multi-stage elections for the first post-Mubarak parliament, while ultraconservative Salafi Islamists take another quarter. The remainder goes to liberal, independent and secular politicians.June 18, 2012: The Muslim Brotherhood\'s candidate Mohammed Morsi defeats Ahmed Shafiq, Mubarak\'s last prime minister, with 51.7 percent of the vote in a runoff, taking office on June 30 as Egypt\'s first freely elected president.Aug. 12, 2012: Morsi removes the defense minister and military chief, Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi, and replaces him with Lt. Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi.Nov. 22, 2012: Morsi unilaterally decrees greater powers for himself, giving his decisions immunity from judicial review and barring the courts from dissolving a panel charged with drafting a new constitution. The move sparks days of protests.Dec. 15-22, 2012: Egyptians approve a constitution drafted and hastily passed by Islamists amid protests and walkouts by other groups, with 63.8 percent voting in favor but a low turnout of 32.9 percent.March 12, 2013: Egypt rejects an offer of a $750 million rescue loan from the International Monetary Fund. In the coming months, fuel and electricity shortages stoke discontent, while a campaign called Tamarod, or "Rebel," gathers signatures calling for Morsi\'s removal and early presidential elections.June 30, 2013: On Morsi\'s anniversary in office, millions of Egyptians begin days of demonstrations demanding his resignation. The military gives him 48 hours to reach an agreement with his opponents, but he vows to remain in office.July 3, 2013: El-Sissi announces Morsi\'s removal, installing Constitutional Court Chief Justice Adly Mansour as interim president.Aug. 14, 2013: More than 600 people, mostly Morsi supporters, are killed when police clear two pro-Morsi sit-ins in Cairo. Islamists retaliate by torching government buildings, churches and police stations. Hundreds more die in subsequent violence.Aug. 19, 2013: Suspected Islamic militants kill 25 policemen in the Sinai Peninsula. Militant attacks escalate in Sinai over the following months, with shootings, bombings and suicide attacks against security officials and troops.Sept. 23, 2013: An Egyptian court orders the Brotherhood banned and its assets confiscated.Oct. 9, 2013: The U.S. suspends delivery of tanks, helicopters and fighter jets to Egypt in a show of disapproval over the anti-Brotherhood crackdown.Nov. 4, 2013: Morsi appears for the first time since his ouster at the opening of his trial on charges of inciting violence, the first of several court cases against him. Some charges against him carry the death penalty.Dec. 25, 2013: The government designates the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organization.Jan. 14, 2014: Egyptians vote in favor of amendments to the constitution adopted under Morsi. The referendum sees 98.1 percent of voters approve the measure. Turnout is less than 39 percent.April 28, 2014: An Egyptian court sentences to death the Muslim Brotherhood\'s spiritual leader and 682 other people over violence and the killing of policemen. The verdict, which can be appealed, sparks an international outcry.May 26-28, 2014: Egyptians vote in a presidential election. El-Sissi wins with 96.9 percent of the vote. Leftist politician Hamdeen Sabahi receives 775,000 votes, fewer than the 1.4 million invalid ballots cast. Turnout was 47.45 percent.Nov. 10, 2014: A Sinai-based jihadi organization called Ansar Beit al-Maqdis pledges allegiance to the Islamic State group, giving the organization a foothold in Egypt.Nov. 30, 2014: A judge dismisses murder charges against Mubarak and acquits his security chief over the killing of protesters during the 2011 uprising.April 21, 2015: Morsi sentenced to 20 years in prison on charges linked to the killing of protesters in 2012.May 9, 2015: Mubarak and his two sons sentenced to three years in prison on corruption charges during a retrial.May 16, 2015: Morsi and more than 100 others are sentenced to death over a mass prison break during the 2011 uprising.October 2015: Egypt holds parliamentary elections, leading to an assembly packed with el-Sissi supportersOct. 31, 2015: A bomb brings down a Russian airliner that had taken off from the resort city of Sharm al-Sheikh in the Sinai Peninsula. All 224 people on board were killed. The attack was later claimed by the Islamic State group.April 15, 2016: Thousands demonstrate against Egypt\'s transfer of two Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabia, in the largest protests since el-Sissi was elected president.Nov. 11, 2016: The International Monetary Fund approves a three-year $12 billion bailout loan agreement with Egypt.Dec. 11, 2016: Suicide bomber strikes inside a Cairo chapel adjacent to St. Mark\'s Cathedral, seat of Egypt\'s ancient Coptic Orthodox Church. The Islamic State group claimed the attack, which killed at least 25 people.March 13, 2017: Egyptian prosecutors order the release of Mubarak, ending years of legal proceedings.April 3, 2017: El-Sissi visits U.S. President Donald Trump in the White House.April 9, 2017: Twin suicide bombings rock churches in the coastal city of Alexandria and Tanta, killing at least 45 people. The attack was claimed by the Islamic State group. President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi declares a state of emergency nationwide.May 26, 2017: Masked militants open fire on a bus packed with Coptic Christians, including children, south of Cairo, killing at least 28 people and wounding 22.Oct. 20, 2017: Militants ambush a convoy of Egyptian security personnel, killing at least 16 policemen in the western desert, southwest of Cairo.Nov. 24, 2017: Militants kill 311 worshippers in a mosque attack in north Sinai, the deadliest such terrorist attack in Egypt\'s modern history. No group claimed responsibility.Jan. 7, 2018: Former Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq pulls out of the presidential race after he announced intention to run.Jan. 15, 2018: Former lawmaker Mohammed Anwar Sadat says he will not run for president, citing a political "climate" not conducive to campaigning.Jan. 23, 2018: Authorities arrest former army Chief of Staff Sami Annan on charges of inciting against the military and forgery, three days after he announced his intention to run for president.Jan. 24, 2018: Presidential hopeful Khaled Ali announces his withdrawal from the race, saying many of his supporters outside Cairo were arrested and faced terror charges.Jan. 27, 2018: Former anti-graft chief Hisham Genena is wounded in a brawl with unidentified men outside his suburban Cairo home. Genena was earlier named as a top aide to Annan.Jan. 29, 2018: Moussa Mustafa Moussa, a little-known politician who supports el-Sissi, declares his candidacy in the presidential elections.Feb. 13, 2018:  Genena arrested after he tells a television interviewer that Annan is in possession of documents incriminating the country\'s "leadership."Feb. 14, 2018: Former presidential candidate Abdel-Monaem Abul Fetouh arrested over his alleged links to Egypt\'s outlawed Muslim Brotherhood group.March 26: Polls open in Egypt\'s presidential election, with el-Sissi virtually guaranteed to win. Voting ends on Wednesday, March 28.
