A look at recent developments in the South China Sea, where China is pitted against smaller neighbors in multiple disputes over islands, coral reefs and lagoons in waters crucial for global commerce and rich in fish and potential oil and gas reser...
The territorial dispute with Beijing over the South China Sea remained a security challenge despite an improvement in bilateral ties, the Philippine defense chief said on Monday as he accepted three maritime surveillance planes from Japan.
Taiwan sent aircraft on Monday to shadow China air force fighter jets as they flew through the Bashi Channel to the south of the island, its defence ministry said, the latest such incident to add to tension between Taipei and Beijing.
The Philippine military said Monday it will continue aerial patrols of a Chinese-held shoal near the South China Sea despite protests from Beijing over the flights, especially using Japanese-donated aircraft.
China called on World Trade Organization members on Monday to unite to prevent the United States "wrecking" the WTO, and it urged them to oppose U.S. President Donald Trump's tariffs targeting China's alleged theft of intellectual property.
China called on World Trade Organization members on Monday to unite to prevent the United States "wrecking" the WTO, and it urged them to oppose U.S. President Donald Trump's tariffs targeting China's alleged theft of intellectual property.
Top Trump administration officials are asking China to cut tariffs on imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of financial services firms and buy more U.S.-made semiconductors in negotiations to avoid plans to slap tariffs on a host of Chi...
Events are unfolding quickly on the Korean peninsula with planned summits between North and South Korea and the United States, a presidential official in Seoul said on Tuesday, amid  reports that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is in China. 
With little available land and housing prices soaring ever higher, Hong Kong is considering some audacious ways to house residents.
The real fight is over China’s financial support for its high-tech sector, which could help the country develop cutting-edge industries. Beijing says it will stand firm.
China has offered to buy more semiconductors from the United States by diverting some purchases from South Korea and Taiwan, to help cut China's trade surplus with the U.S., the Financial Times reported on Monday, citing unidentified sources.
The Japanese broadcaster NTV aired footage of what it said was a train similar to the ones used in the past by the North’s leadership.
The United States has agreed to exempt South Korea from steel tariffs, South Korea's trade ministry said on Monday, instead imposing a quota on steel imports as the two countries renegotiate a trade deal sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald...
The arrival of a special train in Beijing and unusually heavy security at a guesthouse where prominent North Koreans have stayed in the past have raised speculation that Kim Jong Un is making his first visit to China as the North's leader.
Fears of a full-blown trade war between the United States and China battered Asian shares again on Monday, keeping the safe haven yen near a 16-month peak as investors fretted over the fate of global growth.
The United States and South Korea agreed to revise a trade pact sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump, Seoul said on Monday, with U.S. automakers winning improved market access and Korean steelmakers hit with quotas but avoiding hefty ...
The United States and South Korea agreed to revise a trade pact sharply criticized by U.S. President Donald Trump, Seoul said on Monday, with U.S. automakers winning improved market access and Korean steelmakers hit with quotas but avoiding hefty ...
North Korea leader Kim Jong Un has visited China, Bloomberg reported on Monday citing three unnamed sources, in what would be his first known overseas trip since taking power in 2011 and ahead of a potential summit with U.S. President Donald Trump...
Volvo Car Group will make cars for Lynk &amp; Co at its plant in Ghent, Belgium from late next year, it said on Monday. 
Asian share markets rose sharply on Tuesday as reports of behind-the-scenes talks between the United States and China rekindled hopes a damaging trade war could be averted, in turn sapping the strength of the dollar and yen.
The deal comes amid a flurry of exemptions and revisions to the steel and aluminum protections announced this month by the White House.
Experts predict the abandoned space station, Tiangong-1, will fall back to Earth around this weekend. But the risk to anyone on the ground is almost nil.

China's crude futures kicked off to a roaring start on Monday as western traders and Chinese majors eagerly traded the world's newest financial oil instrument, which many expect to become a third global price benchmark alongside Brent and WTI crud...
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The European Union began a study on Monday on whether the import tariffs imposed by U.S. President Donald Trump warranted action to prevent predominantly Asian producers flooding Europe with steel.
The United States has agreed to double its planned 2018 budget contribution to the ITER project to build a prototype nuclear fusion reactor, avoiding delays to the international project this year, its director said on Monday. 
Was it about anti-Communism? Civil war? Anti-colonialism? The answer matters, and not just to historians.
Asian stocks fell for a third day Monday amid mounting fears about U.S.-Chinese trade tensions.
News that the U.S. and China are open to negotiating to avert a trade war put investors in a buying mood Monday, giving the market its best day in more than two years and erasing about half of its huge losses last week.
In the Philippines, where basketball monopolises the airwaves and ageing boxer Manny Pacquiao is still king, a small piece of football history could be made on Tuesday evening.
Japan's first lady, Akie Abe, once known mainly for embracing progressive causes that put her at odds with her conservative spouse, is now in the hot seat as doubts revive about a murky land sale to a nationalist school to which she had ties.
This year’s themes include plays on reflection, pushing traditional boundaries, and art and issues from the Indian subcontinent.
Here are some key events from more than seven years of turmoil and transition in Egypt, leading up to presidential election on March 26-28:
