Philippine Foreign Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano hailed a "golden period" in ties with China on Wednesday despite differences over the South China Sea as the countries discussed how they might conduct joint development projects in the disputed wat...
China National Machinery Industry Corp, known as Sinomach, has signed a contract to build a 5.35 billion yuan (&#163;603.5 million) railway in western Iran, adding to a wave of Chinese investment in the country.
China is consolidating film, news and publishing regulation under the powerful Communist Party publicity department, strengthening Beijing's grip over content as the country looks to bolster its "soft power" domestically and overseas.
A senior U.S. diplomat said at an event in Taipei on Wednesday that the United States wishes to "bolster Taiwan's ability to defend its democracy" after President Donald Trump signed a new law promoting official exchanges between the two sides tha...
With just weeks to go, there's still no official word on where President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will hold their unprecedented summit.
U.S. President Donald Trump often tweets from his iPhone about pressuring China to address its $375 billion trade surplus with the United States. But a closer look at the Apple smartphone reveals how the headline figure is distorted.
The Trump administration will decide by the end of April which countries will be spared from steep taxes on steel and aluminum imports.
The United States on Wednesday imposed sanctions on 15 South Sudanese oil operators that it said were important sources of cash for the government, an action aimed at increasing pressure on President Salva Kiir to end the country's conflict and hu...
China will actively take steps to safeguard its interests as well as those of its industries, Vice Commerce Minister Wang Shouwen said, in light of what he described as acts of trade protectionism by the United States. 
Brazilian President Michel Temer said on Wednesday the United States would suspend steel and aluminium tariffs on the South American nation pending negotiations, but the office of the U.S. Trade Representative would not confirm that claim.
South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Wednesday a three-way summit with North Korea and the United States is possible and that talks should aim for an end to the nuclear threat on the Korean peninsula.
The trade representative said steel and aluminum from the European Union and several other exporters might be spared from tariffs about to be imposed.
Business confidence among Asian companies rose in the first quarter to the highest level in seven years, a Thomson Reuters/INSEAD survey showed, as a fresh surge by the Chinese economy offset concerns about rising trade barriers.
South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Wednesday a three-way summit with North Korea and the United States is possible and that talks should aim for an end to the nuclear threat on the Korean peninsula.
A Canadian woman told an Australian court on Wednesday that her only role in a plot to smuggle cocaine worth $16 million into Sydney was to make the luxury cruise ship operation look like a vacation.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
The U.S. dollar slipped on Thursday after the Federal Reserve did not signal a faster pace of rate hikes this year while worries about a coming announcement on tariffs from U.S. President Donald Trump dented Asian shares.
Global automakers are sharpening their focus on the electric car market, prompted by the success of Tesla Inc and rising demand for vehicles powered by cleaner technologies. 
When Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross held up a can of Campbell's soup in a CNBC interview to make the case that the Trump administration's steel and aluminum tariffs were "no big deal," the canning industry begged to disagree &#8212; and they were ...
Sure. Take that quiz about which hair-metal band is your spirit animal. Share a few snaps of your toddler at the beach and watch the likes pile up. Comment on that pointed political opinion from the classmate you haven't seen since the Reagan admi...
Planes are grounded and trains are canceled as snow spreads from Washington to Boston.
A conversation with the oceanographer Sylvia Earle. Also this week: We ask automakers about climate science, and forecasters look forward to spring.
