BEIJING   China\'s Defence Ministry said on Friday the United States had seriously harmed the country\'s sovereignty and security after a U.S. Navy destroyer carried out a "freedom of navigation" operation in the disputed South China Sea.Provocative behavior by the United States will only cause the Chinese military to strengthen its defense capabilities, the ministry said in a statement.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
BEIJING   China\'s navy will carry out combat drills in the South China Sea, the military\'s official newspaper said on Friday, describing the move as part of regular annual exercises.Taiwan\'s defense ministry said this week it had shadowed a Chinese aircraft carrier group traversing the Taiwan Strait in a southwesterly direction - meaning into the disputed South China Sea - in what Taiwan judged to be a drill.In a brief report on its WeChat account, the People\'s Liberation Army Daily said the combat exercises would take place shortly, though it gave no details of timing, location or what ships would participate."This is a routine annual planned arrangement for the navy, the aim of which is to test and improve the military\'s training level and to fully raise the ability to win. It is not aimed at any specific country or target," the newspaper added, without elaborating.China\'s navy and air force frequently carry out drills in the South China Sea, where the government has been building man-made islands and constructing airstrips and other facilities, unnerving the region.China claims most of the South China Sea, a key trade route and home to areas that are believed to hold large quantities of oil and natural gas. Along with China, parts of the South China Sea are subject to competing claims from Brunei, Malaysia, Taiwan, Vietnam and the Philippines.China routinely rejects criticism of its activities in the South China Sea, saying as it is Chinese territory it can do what it wants.(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Nick Macfie)
WASHINGTON/BEIJING   A U.S. Navy destroyer carried out a "freedom of navigation" operation on Friday, coming within 12 nautical miles of an artificial island built by China in the South China Sea, U.S. officials told Reuters.The operation, which infuriated Beijing, was the latest attempt to counter what Washington sees as Chinas efforts to limit freedom of navigation in the strategic waters.The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the destroyer Mustin traveled close to Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands and carried out maneuvering operations. China has territorial disputes with its neighbors over the area.Twelve nautical miles is an internationally recognized territorial limit.The United States has criticized China\'s construction of islands and buildup of military facilities in the area, and is concerned they could be used to restrict free nautical movement.The latest operation, the first since January, occurred just a day after U.S. President Donald Trump lit a slow-burning fuse by signing a presidential memorandum that will target up to $60 billion in Chinese goods with tariffs, following a 30-day consultation period that starts once a list is published.When asked about the operation, the U.S. military said its activities are carried out under international law and American forces operate in the region on a daily bases."We conduct routine and regular freedom of navigation operations, as we have done in the past and will continue to do in the future," said Lieutenant Commander Nicole Schwegman, a spokeswoman for U.S. Pacific Fleet.China\'s Defense Ministry said two Chinese naval ships had been sent to identify the U.S. ship and warn it to leave. It described the actions of the American ship as seriously harming China\'s sovereignty and security, which threatens regional peace and stability.Such actions cause forces from both countries to come into close proximity and could easily cause a misjudgment or accident, and create serious political and military provocation for China, the ministry said.China has always dedicated itself to protecting freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, but opposes "illegal and provocative" moves in the name of freedom of navigation, it added."The provocative behavior by the U.S. side will only cause the Chinese military to further strengthen building up defense abilities in all areas."In January, another U.S. Navy destroyer sailed near Scarborough Shoal, a disputed lagoon claimed by China in the South China Sea."MANUFACTURING TENSIONS"In a separate statement, China\'s Foreign Ministry said the country would continue to take all necessary steps to protect its sovereignty and peace and stability in the South China Sea, where it said the situation was developing for the better with the hard work of China and Southeast Asian nations.The U.S. determination to "manufacture tensions" flies in the face of the wishes of countries in the region to seek cooperation and development and will not enjoy popular support, the foreign ministry said.The U.S. military has a longstanding position that its operations are carried out throughout the world, including in areas claimed by allies, and they are separate from political considerations.China\'s claims in the South China Sea, through which about $5 trillion in ship-borne trade passes each year, are contested by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam.The U.S. military put countering China and Russia at the center of a new national defense strategy unveiled in January.China\'s navy will carry out combat drills in the South China Sea, the military\'s official newspaper said on Friday, calling the move part of regular annual exercises.Taiwan\'s Defense Ministry said on Wednesday it had shadowed a Chinese aircraft carrier group traversing the Taiwan Strait in a southwesterly direction - meaning into the disputed South China Sea - in what Taiwan judged to be a drill.The United States has been pushing allies to carry out freedom of navigation operations as well.Britain last month said one of its warships would pass through the South China Sea to assert freedom-of-navigation rights.(Reporting by Idrees Ali and Ben Blanchard; editing by Jonathan Oatis and Tom Brown)
HANOI/SINGAPORE   Vietnam has halted an oil drilling project in the "Red Emperor" block off its southeastern coast licensed to Spanish energy firm Repsol following pressure from China, three sources with direct knowledge of the situation told Reuters on Friday.It would be the second time in less than a year that Vietnam has had to suspend a major oil development in the busy South China Sea waterway under pressure from China.A source with direct knowledge of the situation said  government ministries in Vietnam had paused the project while the decision-making politburo debates whether to suspend or indefinitely terminate the contract.The decision, which hangs on whether the fees incurred by contract cancellation will exceed the cost of resisting Chinese pressure, is on hold until the politburo meets, the source said.That meeting has been delayed by overseas trips by Vietnam\'s prime minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc, a series of visits by foreign dignitaries to Hanoi, and the death of former prime minister Phan Van Khai on Saturday."The ministries are determined to terminate the contract," said the source, who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the situation.A source with direct knowledge of the situation confirmed that the project, which is a joint venture with state oil company PetroVietnam, had been stopped following pressure from China.A source at Repsol told Reuters high-level executives had been discussing how to respond to the pressure, which had been applied both directly by China, and indirectly via Vietnam.A spokesman for Repsol in Madrid declined to comment.  PetroVietnam executives declined to comment. The Vietnamese foreign ministry did not immediately respond to an emailed request for comment.Asked at a regular briefing if China had pressed either Vietnam or Repsol, Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she did not know where such news had come from, but did not elaborate."We hope the relevant sides can work together to maintain the hard-earned positive situation in the South China Sea," she said.\'RED EMPEROR\'Red Emperor, known in Vietnamese as the Ca Rong Do field, is part of Block 07/03 in the Nam Con Son basin, 440 km (273 miles) off the coast of Vietnam\'s southern city of Vung Tau.The $1-billion field of moderate size by international standards is seen as a key asset to help slow the decline of Vietnam\'s stalling oil and gas production.But the block lies near the U-shaped "nine-dash line" that marks the vast area that China claims in the sea and overlaps what it says are its own oil concessions.Located in waters around 350 metres (1,148 ft) deep, it is considered to be profitable from around $60 per barrel. Current Brent crude oil prices <LCOc1> are almost $70 per barrel.The field\'s estimated potential recovery is around 45 million barrels of crude oil, 172 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 2.3 million barrels of condensate, a super light form of crude oil that is mostly a byproduct of gas production.Global crude oil, by comparison, is at almost 100 million barrels per day. Global gas consumption is around 4 trillion cubic metres per year.The move came as Repsol was making final preparations for commercial drilling, according to the BBC, which first reported the news on Friday.A rig, the Ensco 8504, was due to depart from Singapore for the drill site on Thursday, the BBC said, citing an unnamed energy industry source.Repsol spent around 33 million euros ($41 million) on exploration in Vietnam last year, according to the company\'s 2017 profit and loss statement.Repsol\'s top management considers the Red Emperor site one of the company\'s future growth projects.Repsol, which has a 51.75 percent stake in the project, signed a 384-million-euro rental contract for a rig to start work on a Vietnamese site in 2019, according to the statement.Just under half the company\'s 1 billion euro ($1.23 billion) investments for which contracts have been signed for 2018 are in Vietnam.(This refiled version of the story clarifies attribution in paragraph seven).(Additional reporting by Jose Elias Rodriguez in MADRID and Christian Shepherd in BEIJING; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
BRUSSELS  John Boltons appointment as national security adviser seems to many around the world to represent an uninhibited President Trump, and they are trying to puzzle out what exactly that means.A fiercely intelligent man with deeply conservative, nationalistic and aggressive views about American foreign policy, Mr. Bolton may bring more consistency and predictability to President Trumps foreign policy, many suggest. But others worry that his hawkish views on Iran and North Korea, among others, may goad Mr. Trump into seeking military solutions to diplomatic problems.But some also wonder whether Mr. Bolton, who has played the outsider even when serving as a senior American diplomat in the State Department and at the United Nations, will be able to adjust to a high-pressure job where he must be less public, less strident and more of a mediator of differing policy views.And it is an open question whether he will be able to manage his relationship with Mr. Trump, who seems to tire quickly of anyone outside his own family who tries to guide or restrict his behavior, his public statements or his instincts.Mr. Boltons views are well known and largely seem to align with Mr. Trumps: the Iran nuclear deal is flawed and should be scrapped; North Korea must denuclearize or face military action; the United Nations and most other multilateral institutions are of little use to Washington. In this sense, said Josef Janning, a German policy analyst, Mr. Bolton will provide significant support and intellectual ammunition to President Trump.But Mr. Bolton is also a strong supporter of the NATO alliance and a much harsher critic of Russia and President Vladimir V. Putin than is Mr. Trump, Mr. Janning noted. That point may help protect the president from suggestions that he is soft on Russia.Bolton is relentless, intelligent and effective, said Franois Heisbourg of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, who as a French military analyst dealt with Mr. Bolton during the administration of George W. Bush. But hes not a neoconservative and has no interest in democracy promotion. He is a man of the Trumpian world  no allies, no multilateralism.Stephen Bush of the center-left British magazine New Statesman said that Mr. Bolton was the man who makes neoconservatives say, Steady on, old chap. Nigel Sheinwald, a former British ambassador to Washington and to the European Union, also dealt with Mr. Bolton on Iran and arms control.He tried to push Bush policy in a much more extreme direction, Mr. Sheinwald said. Given that the U.S. and the U.K. had so much at stake together, he was oddly deaf to the idea that America had allies and was very critical of the U.K. in almost everything we did, especially over Iran.Mr. Boltons ascension promises strains with American allies both in Europe and in Asia  first over the nuclear deal with Iran and then over the nuclear capacity of North Korea.The crisis most expect to arise first concerns Iran, with both Mr. Bolton and the new secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, sharing Mr. Trumps view that the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, negotiated by the United States the other permanent members of the Security Council and Germany, should be renegotiated or scrapped. With the departure of Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and of Mr. Boltons predecessor, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is a more lonely voice arguing that the deal, however flawed, is better than any alternative.Mr. Boltons opposition to the negotiations with Iran is longstanding, dating from his days in the Bush administration, when he helped derail European talks with Tehran at a time it still had only a few centrifuges, Mr. Heisbourg said.Bolton wanted us to fail, Mr. Heisbourg said. Had we gotten into serious negotiations 10 years before, the Iran deal would be very different, and we could have had the deal people like Bolton say they want now.If Mr. Trump withdraws from the Iran deal in mid-May and imposes new American sanctions, as now seems very likely, the other signatories to the agreement, especially the Europeans, will have a difficult choice. They can try to protect the deal, in defiance of Washington. Or they can blame its failure on Mr. Trump, try to draw Iran into another round of talks and threaten further sanctions themselves if Iran resumes enrichment of uranium to military grade.While Mr. Boltons appointment was welcomed in Israel, with the education minister, Naftali Bennett, calling him an extraordinary security expert, experienced diplomat and a stalwart friend of Israel, the official Iranian response called him a supporter of terrorists now in the highest political position in Trumps totalitarian government.The appointment of Mr. Bolton has set teeth on edge in Asia, where American allies are highly anxious about a developing nuclear crisis that appears all but inevitable. Mr. Bolton, Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Trump all say that North Korea could face pre-emptive warfare if it does not agree to dismantle its nuclear weapons.People are trying to avoid appearing terrified, said Tong Zhao, a nuclear policy expert at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center for Global Policy in Beijing. But people are deeply concerned.He noted that Mr. Boltons appointment followed the imposition of tariffs, a Nuclear Posture Review and other steps that signal a worrisome deterioration in relations as Washington increasingly treats China as a strategic competitor.In that respect, Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing, said that the choice of Mr. Bolton, while a surprise, would not change an already antagonistic tone. Almost everyone in the Trump administration now takes a harsh or hard-line posture toward China, he said. I think Bolton will not be an exception.Lee Byong-chul, senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul, said that South Korea must now manage its very bad chemistry with Mr. Bolton, who is all about sticks.Mr. Bolton has derided South Korea for trying to play peacemaker with Pyongyang, saying the South was like putty in North Koreas hands.We will have to see if Bolton opens his mouth and launches his verbal attacks against the North, Mr. Lee said. That will give North Korea an excuse to step away from its summit proposal. The Trump-Bolton team then will ramp up pressure. And we will hear more talk about a pre-emptive strike and see tensions rising again on the Korean Peninsula.Others thought he might temper his words, but China would still worry about Mr. Bolton having Mr. Trumps ear, said Chen Dingding, a professor of international relations at Jinan University in Guangzhou, China.Hes a hard-liner, not just toward China but to the whole world, Mr. Chen said. North Korea, Iran, the European Union, the United Nations  every side  its not just China. But he does represent a worldview of the Trump administration, one of America First and unilateralism over multilateralism. I think the whole world should be concerned, not just Asia.For Xenia Wickett, a former official at the National Security Council who now directs the United States and Americas Program at the London research organization Chatham House, Mr. Bolton knows his portfolios and is eminently qualified for the job. But the concern, she said, is that he is extremely far toward the hawkish end of the national security world.A good national security adviser, who does not need confirmation by Congress, has a strong relationship with the president, with his own team and with Congress, she said. Mr. Bolton will have a good relationship with Trump, a mixed relationship with his staff and a not very good relationship with Congress, she said, suggesting that even Republicans there would have been unlikely to confirm him had that been required.The best national security advisers coordinate policy more than they run it, she said, wondering: Can Bolton do the coordination thing?
SYDNEY   The United States will deploy a record number of Marines to train in Australia, the Australian defense minister said on Friday, as Washington seeks to counter what it describes as Chinese aggression in the region.Payne said 1,587 U.S. Marines will spend six months training in Australia\'s remote north, an increase of nearly 27 percent on  its 2017 rotation for the program known as the Force Posture Initiatives."The U.S. military plays a vital role in underwriting security and stability across the Indo-Pacific, and the Force Posture Initiatives will be an essential component in preserving stability and security over the coming decades," Defence Minister Marise Payne said in a statement.The deployment, first introduced in 2011 as part of a U.S. "pivot" to Asia, has emerged as a key indicator of Washington\'s commitment to the region under U.S. President Donald Trump and his willingness to counter Chinese influence in a region where tensions have spiked amid disputes over the South China Sea.China claims most of the South China Sea, an important trade route that is also believed to contain large quantities of oil and natural gas, and has been building artificial islands on reefs, some with ports and air strips.In a move likely to irk Beijing, the U.S. Marines will train with personnel from Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, some of which also have claims in the South China Sea."China will monitor whatever the U.S. does and it would prefer that the United States not work with the Asian countries included in these exercises," said Euan Graham, director of the international security program at Australian think tank the Lowy Institute."Beijing would like to deal one-on-one with Southeast Asia nations that have counter claims," he said.The U.S. Marines will also bring additional military equipment, including helicopters and F-18 jets, Payne said.The military deployment also threatens to further weaken Australia-Chinese relations.Australia, a staunch U.S. ally with no claim to the South China Sea, has long maintained its neutrality in the dispute to protect its economic relationship with China.But bilateral relations have soured in recent months after Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said China was improperly interfering in Canberra\'s affairs, an accusation that triggered a rare protest from Beijing.(Reporting by Colin Packham; Editing by Paul Tait)
SYDNEY   The United States will deploy a record number of Marines to train in Australia, the Australian defense minister said on Friday, as Washington seeks to counter what it describes as Chinese aggression in the region.Payne said 1,587 U.S. Marines will spend six months training in Australia\'s remote north, an increase of nearly 27 percent on  its 2017 rotation for the program known as the Force Posture Initiatives."The U.S. military plays a vital role in underwriting security and stability across the Indo-Pacific, and the Force Posture Initiatives will be an essential component in preserving stability and security over the coming decades," Defence Minister Marise Payne said in a statement.The deployment, first introduced in 2011 as part of a U.S. "pivot" to Asia, has emerged as a key indicator of Washington\'s commitment to the region under U.S. President Donald Trump and his willingness to counter Chinese influence in a region where tensions have spiked amid disputes over the South China Sea.China claims most of the South China Sea, an important trade route that is also believed to contain large quantities of oil and natural gas, and has been building artificial islands on reefs, some with ports and air strips.In a move likely to irk Beijing, the U.S. Marines will train with personnel from Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, some of which also have claims in the South China Sea."China will monitor whatever the U.S. does and it would prefer that the United States not work with the Asian countries included in these exercises," said Euan Graham, director of the international security program at Australian think tank the Lowy Institute."Beijing would like to deal one-on-one with Southeast Asia nations that have counter claims," he said.The U.S. Marines will also bring additional military equipment, including helicopters and F-18 jets, Payne said.The military deployment also threatens to further weaken Australia-Chinese relations.Australia, a staunch U.S. ally with no claim to the South China Sea, has long maintained its neutrality in the dispute to protect its economic relationship with China.But bilateral relations have soured in recent months after Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said China was improperly interfering in Canberra\'s affairs, an accusation that triggered a rare protest from Beijing.(Reporting by Colin Packham; Editing by Paul Tait)
ABOARD USS WASP, Philippine Sea   The U.S. military on Friday launched vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) F-35Bs from the deck of the USS Wasp amphibious carrier in the waters around Okinawa in its first show of stealth aircraft force at sea.The exercise comes at a time when concerns remain high over North Korea\'s nuclear program, although regional tension has eased in recent weeks, coinciding with the North\'s participation in the Winter Olympics held in South Korea last month."This is a historic deployment. For the first time we take a marine stealth fighter F-35B. We pair it with a navy amphibious ship," Rear Admiral Brad Cooper, commander of the U.S. Navy\'s Expeditionary Strike Group 7, told reporters."And together this represents what I believe is the most significant lead in war fighting capability of our life time ... It gives us more ability to underscore peace, security and stability in this region."During the training, an F-35B fighter took off after running just 100 meters (109 yards) or so on the deck, and when it came back with its jet engine roaring, the aircraft hovered over the ship once, and then began its slow, vertical descent.It is capable of a vertical, as well as short takeoff.In November, the United States deployed 16 F-35Bs to its Marine Corps base in Iwakuni, western Japan. The refurbished Wasp moved to its base in Sasebo on Japan\'s major southwestern  island of Kyushu in January to replace the amphibious carrier that was deployed there.SIGNIFICANT UPGRADEWhile the U.S. Air Force version of the F-35 is already flying from bases in Japan, the addition of the F-35B to replace aging Harrier jump jets marks a significant upgrade to U.S. marine force capability around the East China Sea, where China is also bolstering its military.China already has one operational aircraft carrier, the second-hand Soviet-era Liaoning bought from Ukraine in 1998, and is carrying out tests on its first indigenously built carrier, launched last year and expected to enter service in 2020.Beijing is also modernizing its military with stealth aircraft and other new equipment, and plans to spend 1.11 trillion yuan ($176 billion) on its armed forces in 2018, more than three times as much as Japan and around a third of what the United States spends.Japan may also buy the F-35B, which it could fly from its two Izumo-class helicopters carriers with small improvements to the ships such as strengthening their decks against the 450 degree Celsius (842F) heat blast from the F-35B\'s engine."Changes to the Izumo could be completed within three months," said a retired senior commander of Japan\'s Maritime Self Defense Force (MSDF). He asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the topic.Japan, which has already ordered 42 F-35As, could also operate F-35Bs from islands along the Okinawa chain that skirts the edge of the East China Sea that don\'t have runways."Using its stealth capabilities the F-35 could fly deep into North Korea or China to target mobile air defense batteries or ballistic missile launchers," said Bonji Ohara, senior fellow at Sasakawa Peace Foundation, a think-tank. Ohara also is a former MSDF captain.(Reporting by Nobuhiro Kubo; writing by Tim Kelly, Kiyoshi Takenaka; Editing by Gareth Jones)
SEOUL   Once rejected by North Korea as "human scum," U.S. President Donald Trump\'s latest pick for national security adviser has called for regime change in North Korea, prompting worries in Asia ahead of a historic summit between Washington and Pyongyang.Trump announced in a tweet he was replacing H.R. McMaster with John Bolton, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations who has advocated the use of military force against North Korea and Iran and has previously been rejected as a negotiating partner by Pyongyang."This is worrisome news," said Kim Hack-yong, conservative lawmaker and head of the national defense committee of South Korea\'s parliament. "North Korea and the United States need to have dialogue but this only fuels worries over whether the talks will ever happen."At Seoul\'s presidential Blue House, which has been forced to navigate between the unpredictable personalities of leaders in both Pyongyang and Washington, officials were circumspect."Our stance is that if a new road opens, we have to go that path," a senior Blue House official told reporters. "Bolton has much knowledge on the issues regarding the Korean peninsula and most of all, we know him to be one of the U.S. president\'s aides who is trusted."He said Chung Eui-yong, South Korea\'s National Security Office head, had not yet spoken with Bolton and that Chung\'s reaction to McMaster\'s dismissal was "not bad".Another administrative official in Seoul expressed regret over the loss of camaraderie McMaster had built with his South Korean counterpart as they had tackled North Korea\'s nuclear issue together.Both officials requested not to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue."A ROCKY PATH"Bolton had described Trump\'s plan to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as "diplomatic shock and awe" and said it would be an opportunity to deliver a threat of military action."I think this session between the two leaders could well be a fairly brief session where Trump says, \'Tell me you have begun total denuclearization, because we\'re not going to have protracted negotiations. You can tell me right now or we\'ll start thinking of something else\'", he told Washington\'s WMAL radio station.Former South Korean intelligence official Nam Sung-wook said Trump may not even get the opportunity to deliver that message."Bolton being tapped for this position makes for a very difficult situation where the U.S.-North Korea summit may not even happen," he said. "Its going to be a rocky path even before the summit."The meeting is supposed to happen by the end of May, but an exact time and place have yet to be settled on.Pyongyang had no immediate comment about Bolton, whosecriticism of then-North Korean leader Kim Jong Il and Pyongyang\'s human rights record in 2003 spurred state media to call him "human scum and bloodsucker."North Korean officials would not recognize him as a representative of the U.S. government or talk with him because of his "political vulgarity and psychopathological condition", state media said at the time.HOPES AND WORRIES IN ASIABolton\'s appointment came 10 days after Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, another moderating influence, replacing him with CIA director Mike Pompeo.His appointment will further diminish hope for China and the United States to see eye-to-eye on security issues, according to Shi Yinhong, an expert on China-U.S. relations at Renmin University in Beijing."What security cooperation with China can there be? Nuclear weapons, North Korea, Taiwan, South China Sea, cyberspace  Where is there hope for cooperation?" Shi said."Trump and Xi Jinping have spoken in public of the logic of cooperation, but with the negative direction of trade and security cooperation, these words seem more and more empty."Zhao Tong, an expert on North Korea and nuclear disarmament at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center in Beijing, said Boltons previous calls for China to pursue regime change in North Korea, as well as for a reunification of the peninsula under the South Korean government, was "very unrealistic".His views on strategic security issues will reinforce the Chinese convictions that it needs to build up its hard power," Zhao said.Tokyo expressed hopes communication with Washington would go on as normal, with one Japanese government official saying he was "very optimistic" Japan would be able to get along with Bolton as he has many friends inside the Japanese government.Narushige Michishita, a professor at Tokyo\'s Graduate Institute for Policy Studies, said Bolton\'s toughness could present a hurdle in dealing with Pyongyang."The problem is that he doesn\'t have any flexibility. That\'s a negative concern that I have," Michishita said.(Reporting by Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Heekyong Yang and Josh Smith in SEOUL, Christian Shepherd in BEIJING and Linda Sieg in TOKYO; Editing by Bill Tarrant)
SEOUL   Voices of concern emerged in South Korea and elsewhere in Asia on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump shook up his foreign policy team again, prompting worries over Trump\'s pending summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.Trump announced in a tweet he was replacing H.R. McMaster with John Bolton, a former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations known for his hard-line stance advocating the use of military force against North Korea and Iran.Administrative officials in Seoul said they would continue communicating closely with Washington over the ongoing detente with North Korea, but their comments were tinged with worry."Our stance is that if a new road opens, we have to go that path," a senior Blue House official told reporters. "Bolton has much knowledge on the issues regarding the Korean peninsula and most of all, we know him to be one of the U.S. president\'s aides who is trusted."He said Chung Eui-yong, South Korea\'s National Security Office head, had not yet spoken with Bolton and that Chung\'s reaction to McMaster\'s dismissal was "not bad".Another administrative official in Seoul expressed regret over the loss of camaraderie McMaster had built with his South Korean counterpart as they had tackled North Korea\'s nuclear issue together.Both officials requested not to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue.The announcement came 10 days after Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, another moderating influence, replacing him with CIA director Mike Pompeo.The administration of South Korean President Moon Jae-in is keen to see successful talks between the United States and North Korea, expected sometime in May.The two Koreas are also scheduled to hold their first summit in more than a decade in late April, building on friendly exchanges that began after Kim Jong Un said in a New Year\'s address he wanted to improve ties with South Korea."TURN TO DUST"That goodwill could disappear with Bolton\'s appearance, others said."If Bolton take office and talks with North Korea go haywire and yield bad results, I don\'t know what we\'ll do then," said Kim Hack-yong, conservative lawmaker and head of the national defense committee of South Korea\'s parliament."It might be great if Kim Jong Un comes to talks with a free spirit but any turns in a negative direction could mean all our work over the years to engage North Korea could turn to dust."Bolton, in an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal last month, concluded it was "perfectly legitimate for the United States to respond to the current \'necessity\' posed by North Koreas nuclear weapons by striking first".Bolton\'s appointment will further diminish hope for China and the United States to see eye-to-eye on security issues, according to Shi Yinhong, an expert on China-U.S. relations at Renmin University in Beijing."What security cooperation with China can there be? Nuclear weapons, North Korea, Taiwan, South China Sea, cyberspace Where is there hope for cooperation?" Shi said."Trump and Xi Jinping have spoken in public of the logic of cooperation, but with the negative direction of trade and security cooperation, these words seem more and more empty."Tokyo expressed hopes communication with Washington would go on as normal, with one Japanese government official saying he was "very optimistic" Japan would be able to get along with Bolton as he has many friends inside the Japanese government.Narushige Michishita, a professor at Tokyo\'s Graduate Institute for Policy Studies, said Bolton\'s insistence on pressure and sanctions was "good news" but his toughness could present a hurdle in dealing with Pyongyang."The bad news is, sometimes he is too tough," Michishita said. "He is consistently tough. The problem is that he doesn\'t have any flexibility. That\'s a negative concern that I have."(Reporting by Christine Kim; Additional reporting by Heekyong Yang in SEOUL, Christian Shepherd in BEIJING and Linda Sieg in TOKYO; Editing by Lincoln Feast)
WASHINGTON   U.S. government scientists say ice covering the Arctic ocean reached its second lowest extent on record this winter.For most of the winter, sea ice in the Arctic was at record lows, but cold March winds helped the ice expand just beyond the low set in 2017.Scientists from National Snow and Ice Data Center said Friday Arctic sea ice peaked at 5.59 million square miles (14.48 square kilometers). That's 448,000 square miles (1,160,000 square kilometers) below normal.The last four years have seen the lowest sea ice maximums since satellite tracking began in 1979.Arctic sea ice helps moderate global climate. Some studies connect its loss to more extreme weather further south, including winter storms like those that have smacked North America and Europe in recent weeks.
BEIJING/SHANGHAI   China urged the United States on Friday to "pull back from the brink" as President Donald Trump\'s plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods moved the world\'s two largest economies closer to a trade war.The escalating tensions sent shivers through financial markets as investors foresaw dire consequences for the global economy if trade barriers start going up.Trump is planning to impose the tariffs for what he says is misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property. A probe was launched last year under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."China doesn\'t hope to be in a trade war, but is not afraid of engaging in one," the Chinese commerce ministry responded in a statement."China hopes the United States will pull back from the brink, make prudent decisions, and avoid dragging bilateral trade relations to a dangerous place."In a presidential memorandum signed by Trump on Thursday, there will be a 30-day consultation period that only starts once a list of Chinese goods is published. That effectively creates  room for potential talks to address Trump\'s allegations on intellectual property theft and forced technology transfers.Though the White House has said the planned tariffs were a response to China\'s "economic aggression", Trump said he views China as "a friend" and the two sides are in negotiations.A Chinese commerce ministry official said both sides were in touch.Still, it is unclear under what terms China and the U.S. are willing to talk, with Beijing adamant that the U.S. tariffs constitute a unilateral move that it rejects.China has always said it will not hold talks with the U.S. within the framework of the Section 301 probe, Chen Fuli, director-general of the commerce ministry\'s department of treaty and law, told reporters."Currently, we are not looking to get in a negotiation again," a senior U.S. official told reporters in Beijing.If China wants to avoid U.S. tariffs, it needs to start taking concrete action, the official said, adding that Washington has not given Beijing any to-do list to remedy trade ties.(U.S. imports from China: http://tmsnrt.rs/2FMsz1Q)(U.S. trade in goods with China: http://tmsnrt.rs/2GcOZIH)READY TO RETALIATEChina showed readiness to retaliate by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports including fruit and wine in response to U.S. import tariffs on steel and aluminum, which were due to go into effect on Friday.The inevitable fall in demand from a full-blown trade war would spell trouble for all economies supplying the United States and China.Feeling the chill, MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan fell 2.5 percent, tracking heavy losses on Wall Street. China\'s main indexes tumbled the most in six weeks, skidding up to 3.6 percent."Today\'s (U.S.) tariffs amount to no more than a slap on the wrist for China," Mark Williams, Chief Asia Economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a note. "China won\'t change its ways. Worries about escalation therefore won\'t go away."Williams estimated that the $506 billion that China exported to the United States drove around 2.5 percent of its total gross domestic product, and the $50-60 billion targeted by the U.S. tariffs contributed just around 0.25 percent.Trump, however, appears intent on fulfilling election promises to reduce the record U.S. trade deficit with China. A commentary published by the official Xinhua news agency said the United States had adopted a "Cold War mentality", and "panic" over China\'s economic rise was driving Washington\'s confrontational approach.U.S. multi-nationals at a business gathering in Shanghai were warned by Stephen Roach, a Yale University economist, "to prepare for the worst" and make contingency plans until calmer heads prevail.Roach said he could foresee "the Chinese government moving to restrict, in some form or another, the financial as well as the supply chain activities of American companies operating in this country."Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China would not hold back in retaliating."It\'s impolite not to give as good as one gets," Hua told reporters.LOW HANGING FRUITAlarm over Trump\'s protectionist leanings mounted earlier this month after he imposed hefty import tariffs on steel and aluminum under Section 232 of the 1962 U.S. Trade Expansion Act, which allows safeguards based on "national security".On Friday, Trump gave Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Australia, Brazil and South Korea and the European Union temporary exemptions. China was not exempted even though it was a far smaller supplier than Canada or South Korea.Also omitted from the exemption list was U.S. ally Japan, though a government spokesman said Tokyo would press to be included. And Finance Minister Taro Aso expressed empathy with Washington over protecting intellectual property.China\'s retaliation against the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum appeared restrained.China has drawn a list of 128 U.S. products that could be hit with tariffs if the two countries are unable to reach an agreement on trade issues, the ministry said.Without giving a timeframe, the commerce ministry said China was considering implementing measures in two stages: first a 15 percent tariff on 120 products including steel pipes, dried fruit and wine worth $977 million, and later, a 25 percent tariff on $1.99 billion of pork and recycled aluminum.U.S. wine exports to China last year were $79 million, according to the U.S. Wine Institute, which represents Californian wine makers.Fruit growers in California, Florida, Michigan and Washington all stood to lose as China\'s list also included close to 80 fruit and nut products. The U.S. exported $669 million of fruit, frozen juice and nuts to China last year, and it was the top supplier of apples, cherries, walnuts and almonds."With the restrained response, China hopes Trump can realize his errors and mend his ways," said Xu Hongcai, deputy chief economist at the China Centre for International Economic Exchanges, a Beijing think tank."If we really want to counter, the strongest response would be to target soybean and automobiles. China is drawing its bow but not firing. We still have some cards to play."(Additional reporting by John Ruwitch, Elias Glenn, Dominique Patton, Josephine Mason, Ben Blanchard, Christian Shepherd, Meng Meng, Tom Daly, Wang Jing and Lusha Zhang; Editing By Simon Cameron-Moore)
LONDON   Following are five big themes likely to dominate thinking of investors and traders in the coming week and the Reuters stories related to them.1/WAR CRIESIf fears of a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies, the United States and China, weren\'t enough to set the nerves racing, the two sides are butting against each other in the South China Sea again and Donald Trump has just tossed in the threat of another U.S. government shutdown.Next week will probably see a drama involving all three and possibly other elements too that we don\'t even know about yet.However, some experienced analysts suggest that the rout in stocks may not point to panic over a full-scale trade war.Graphic - Global stocks sell-off: https://reut.rs/2pBpWF12/HUNG, DRAWN AND QUARTEREDThe first quarter draws to a close, and what a quarter it has been. Investors have had a lot thrown at them - from the biggest ever rise in stock market volatility to rapidly escalating tensions over global trade, deepening tumult in the White House and tech sector wobbles.The market "melt-up" they all talked about in January has melted away, the Dow and S&P are down for the year, and the outlook for Q2 is a great deal more uncertain. Global trade tensions are now infecting investor sentiment and risk appetite, there are signs that growth has peaked (particularly in Europe), rising dollar interbank rates show no sign of reversing, and the global liquidity pool will shrink this year.Will the bears continue to gain the upper hand in Q2, or will the bulls charge again?Graphic - Q1 returns - winners & losers: http://reut.rs/2pAC6xX3/GROWING TO PLANThe final U.S. government read on fourth quarter GDP on Wednesday will come hot on the heels of the Federal Reserve\'s first interest rate hike of the year.In theory it should be reassuring. The United States is a fairly closed economy, and in the fourth quarter Donald Trump was dishing out tax cuts, not threatening trade wars.The U.S. Commerce Department also said on Friday that new orders for key U.S.-made capital goods rebounded more than expected last month and shipments of core capital goods saw the biggest advance since December 2016.Other realtime data, though, is not so encouraging. An Atlanta Federal Reserve model which updates weekly is now forecasting Q1 GDP increasing at an annualised rate of 1.8 percent. At the start of March it was churning out numbers around 3.5 percent.Graphic - U.S. GDP: https://reut.rs/2pz3u004/SELL EUROPE?High expectations for European stocks in 2018 have not been met. Euro zone and UK business confidence data due out next week will either inflame or soothe concerns that the region\'s economic momentum may be starting to wane.Morgan Stanley equity strategists say Europe is now seeing record outflows versus the United States, and even the popularity of French President Emmanual Macron - elected last year with a strong mandate to reform rigid labour markets - has now hit an all-time low in the polls.The French CAC-40 share index is now down 5 percent from when Macron won power last May, though that is still better than the near 7 percent the pan-European Stoxx 600 has lost.Graphic - Economic surprises: euro zone vs U.S.: http://reut.rs/2pyuBaT5/UNFRIENDEDThe Facebook shock has been a hugely significant moment in this long-running bull market. Tech and internet stocks  such as the fabled FAANGs and BATs  have dominated and driven the equity rally of the past 2-3 years  mainly because the digital revolution underlying the boom in those companies was seen as largely impervious to shifting political winds or even ebbs and flows in the economic cycle.In the long run that may still be true. But Facebooks travails and questions over the use of Big Data more generally - or at least the advertising model underlying many of these companies - has cast some doubt over whether that progress is as linear as market pricing suggests.Next week may well be all about the growls coming from governments and their regulators on how far they will go to rein in the power of social networks. Mark Zuckerberg already has a long list of what are not exactly \'friend\' requests to testify in front of various countries\' lawmakers.Graphic - Unfriended: http://reut.rs/2psCzTp(Writing by Marc Jones, additional reporting by Jamie McGeever, Danilo Masoni, Kit Rees and Alden Bentley; Editing by Gareth Jones)
GENEVA   U.S. President Donald Trump\'s steel and aluminum tariffs met a barrage of criticism at a World Trade Organization meeting on Friday, as the European Union, Japan, Australia and others joined a debate started by China and Russia.The EU representative dismissed U.S. assertions that the steps were needed to protect national security, saying Washington was just trying to support its industry, a Geneva trade official said.China and Russia have already said they are drawing up plans to retaliate to offset the impact of the tariffs.China\'s representative at the closed-door WTO meeting said the tariffs were "groundless" and violated WTO rules in multiple ways, the trade official said.China\'s representative said that the experience of the 1930s showed that trade barriers did the opposite of safeguarding national security, in a possible reference to the U.S. Great Depression and the build-up to World War Two.Russia queried the basis for temporary exemptions to the tariffs, which Washington has granted to the EU, Argentina, Australia, Canada, Mexico, South Korea and Brazil, said the official.South Korea said countries should be careful using national security as a reason for trade barriers, as it might set off a domino effect with other states piling in to justify measures to protect their own industries. Japan said the U.S. move was regrettable, and Turkey asked how it could be in line with WTO rules, the trade official added.Others echoed the concerns about a domino effect, and said it might damage the WTO consensus, under which states have shied away from invoking security to justify barriers.Brazil said the issue could only be addressed multilaterally, but added that it was encouraged by U.S. efforts for bilateral talks on the issue, the official added.The U.S. representative at the meeting did not respond directly to the criticism but said its tariffs were "consistent" with the WTO\'s General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.China has added two items that it wants to discuss under "any other business" at the meeting, which was already set to hear 15 trade concerns.China plans to raise concerns about another package of tariffs announced by Trump on Thursday, to combat what he says is Chinese theft of U.S. intellectual property.China also plans to raise the issue of "U.S. civil aviation security equipment measures", diplomats said. No further detail was immediately available.(Reporting by Tom Miles; Editing by Alison Williams and Andrew Heavens)
BEIJING/SHANGHAI   China urged the United States on Friday to "pull back from the brink" as President Donald Trump\'s plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion (42.5 billion pounds) in Chinese goods moved the world\'s two largest economies closer to a trade war.The escalating tensions between Beijing and Washington sent shivers through financial markets as investors foresaw dire consequences for the global economy if trade barriers start going up.Trump is planning to impose the tariffs over what his administration says is misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property. A probe was launched last year under Section 301 of the 1974 U.S. Trade Act."China doesn\'t hope to be in a trade war, but is not afraid of engaging in one," the Chinese commerce ministry responded in a statement."China hopes the United States will pull back from the brink, make prudent decisions, and avoid dragging bilateral trade relations to a dangerous place."In a presidential memorandum signed by Trump on Thursday, there will be a 30-day consultation period that only starts once a list of Chinese goods is published.That effectively creates room for potential talks to address Trump\'s allegations on intellectual property theft and forced technology transfers.Though the White House has said the planned tariffs were a response to China\'s "economic aggression", Trump said he views China as "a friend", and both sides are in the midst of negotiations. A Chinese commerce ministry official said both sides were in touch, and communication channels were smooth.For a graphic on U.S. imports from China, click http://tmsnrt.rs/2FMsz1QMeantime, China showed readiness to retaliate by declaring plans to levy additional duties on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports including fresh fruit, wine and nuts in response to imports tariffs Trump announced earlier this month on steel and aluminium, which were due to go into effect on Friday.The inevitable fall in demand from a full-blown trade war would spell trouble for all the economies supplying the United States and China.Feeling the chill, MSCI\'s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan dropped 2.45 percent, tracking a large overnight fall in Wall Street shares, Shanghai shares shed 3.8 percent and Japan\'s Nikkei lost 4.5 percent, while perceived safe havens such as government bonds gained.For a graphic on U.S. trade in goods with China, click http://tmsnrt.rs/2GcOZIH"The upshot is that today\'s (U.S.) tariffs amount to no more than a slap on the wrist for China," Mark Williams, Chief Asia Economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a note. "China won\'t change its ways. Worries about escalation therefore won\'t go away."Williams estimated that the $506 billion that China exported to the United States drove around 2.5 percent of its total gross domestic product, and the $50-60 billion targeted by the U.S. tariffs contributed just around 0.25 percent.Trump, however, appears intent on fulfilling election campaign promises to reduce the record U.S. trade deficit with China. A commentary published by the official Xinhua news agency said the United States had adopted a "Cold War mentality", and "panic" over China\'s economic rise was driving Washington\'s confrontational approach.U.S. multi-nationals at a business gathering in Shanghai were warned by Stephen Roach, a Yale University  economist, "to prepare for the worst" and make contingencies until calmer heads prevail.Roach said he could foresee "the Chinese government moving to restrict, in some form or another, the financial as well as the supply chain activities of American companies operating in this country."LOW HANGING FRUITAlarm over Trump\'s protectionist leanings mounted earlier this month after he imposed hefty import tariffs on steel and aluminium under Section 232 of the 1962 U.S. Trade Expansion Act, which allows safeguards based on "national security".On Friday, Trump gave Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Australia, Brazil and South Korea and the European Union temporary exemptions. China was not exempted even though it was a far smaller supplier than Canada or South Korea.Also omitted from the exemption list was U.S. ally Japan, though a government spokesman said Tokyo would press to be included. And Finance Minister Taro Aso expressed empathy with Washington regarding the importance of protecting intellectual property.China\'s retaliation against the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminium appeared restrained.Targeting $3 billion of U.S. imports, China has drawn a list of 128 U.S. products that could be hit with tariffs if the two countries are unable to reach an agreement on trade issues, the ministry said.The commerce ministry said China was considering implementing measures in two stages: first the 15 percent tariff on 120 products including steel pipes, dried fruit and wine worth $977 million, and later, the higher 25 percent tariff on $1.99 billion of pork and recycled aluminium.U.S. wine exports to China last year were $79 million, according to data from the U.S. Wine Institute, which represents Californian wine makers.The fruit growers of California, Florida, Michigan and Washington all stood to lose as China\'s list also included close to 80 fruit and nut products. U.S. exports of fruits, frozen juices and nuts to China amounted to $669 million last year, and it was the top supplier of apples, cherries, walnuts and almonds."With the restrained response, China hopes Trump can realise his errors and mend his ways," said Xu Hongcai, deputy chief economist at the China Centre for International Economic Exchanges, a Beijing think tank."If we really want to counter, the strongest response would be to target soybean and automobiles," said Xu. "China is \'drawing its bow but not firing. We still have some cards to play."(Additional reporting by Wang Jing, Lusha Zhang, John Ruwitch, Elias Glenn, Dominique Patton, Josephine Mason, Meng Meng and Tom Daly; Editing By Simon Cameron-Moore)
BEIJING  In a tit-for-tat trade battle with the United States, Chinas response has so far been restrained.But that is with good reason: As it waits to see how far President Trump plans to go in imposing sweeping tariffs on China, Beijing knows that it has more effective weapons in its arsenal.Chinas Ministry of Commerce said on Friday that it would impose tariffs on $3 billion worth of American-produced fruit, pork, wine, seamless steel pipes and more than 100 other products. The move was in response to the Trump administrations announcements that it would apply tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum, and came hours after Mr. Trump said he would impose tariffs on about $60 billion worth of Chinese-made products.Beijing said it would challenge the penalties at the World Trade Organization, and would carry out its trade restrictions in accordance with W.T.O. rules.Analysts say the latest round of United States tariffs, if imposed, would likely have a minimal impact on the Chinese economy. While Mr. Trump chose confrontational language toward China in announcing his latest move, actual details were sparse and amounted in many ways to a threat as opposed to an actual imposition of tariffs.But the escalating tensions, and the prospect of further action by China, have nevertheless raised concerns.We do seem to be entering a trade war, said Eswar Prasad, a senior professor of trade policy at Cornell University. The U.S. has unsheathed its sword after an extended period of saber rattling, and the Chinese are now unsheathing their weapons.I hope this will not spiral into a very broad set of sanctions on both sides, he said, but I think, given Mr. Trumps instincts and his very keen desire to deliver a political win whatever the political fallout might be, I dont think it can be tamped down now.Stock markets in Asia slid on news of the escalating trade confrontation. By the close of trade on Friday, benchmark stock indexes in Hong Kong and Shanghai had fallen 2.5 percent and 3.4 percent respectively, tracking an overnight drop in Wall Street.The American restrictions announced on Thursday would include tariffs of 25 percent on a list of specific goods, a proposal that is set to be made in the coming days, followed by a 30-day public consultation. During that time, the administration may hold more talks with the Chinese government, and lobbyists will wage an energetic fight to have their employers products removed from the list.The loss to China from the planned tariffs would amount to no more than 0.1 percent of its economic output, according to Mark Williams, chief Asia economist at Capital Economics. JPMorgan said the potentially affected exports from China would account for 2.2 percent of the countrys total exports, which totaled about $2.3 trillion in 2017.The upshot is that todays tariffs amount to no more than a slap on the wrist for China, Mr. Williams wrote in a note.China would charge a 15 percent tariff on the American-produced products listed in Fridays announcement.Another round of tariffs could be imposed on a second group of American-made goods after China evaluates the impact of the American trade measures against China. That group would be charged 25 percent tariffs. It said businesses and other parties had until March 31 to submit views about the retaliatory tariffs, meaning they could take effect only after that date.But there are many ways that China, Americas biggest foreign creditor and its third-largest export market, could intensify its response. In particular, it could add aircraft and soybeans  both enormous American industries for which China is a critical market  to its list of restricted items. The United States exports $12.4 billion worth of soybeans to China, and analysts say that Boeing, which competes against Airbus of Europe to sell jetliners to Chinese carriers, is another obvious target.China does not want to fight a trade war but is absolutely not afraid of a trade war, a Commerce Ministry representative said in a statement. We are confident and capable of meeting any challenge and hope that the United States will pause on the brink of a precipice, make careful decisions and avoid dragging bilateral trade relations to a dangerous place.For now, the proposed Chinese penalties appear to be a carefully calibrated response to the American steel and aluminum tariffs, which took effect on Friday. Beijings restrictions would affect $2.97 billion worth of American steel, aluminum and pork. That is roughly equivalent to the $2.79 billion worth of steel and aluminum that China exported to the United States last year, according to Commerce Department data.The goods that Beijing plans to penalize represents about 2 percent of the total size of American exports to China, according to Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.Its not devastating economically by any stretch, but its certainly going to hurt those interests in the United States that are trying to export, Mr. Bown said. He pointed out that the retaliation by China sent a negative signal, that they are not seeking to de-escalate things.China also picked its targets carefully by choosing goods that had political resonance, akin to what the European Union did this month by targeting bourbon, bluejeans and motorcycles, products made in states with Republican politicians or that supported Mr. Trump in his 2016 election victory. In Chinas case, pork comes from Nebraska and the Midwest, states that backed Mr. Trump.I would say that Chinas proposal is quite restrained, said Song Guoyou, deputy director of the American studies center at Fudan University in Shanghai. Mr. Song characterized Chinas response as cautious anger.That may not last for long, as the trade dispute between Washington and Beijing widens.In February, China opened an anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigation into sorghum imports from the United States, less than two weeks after the United States said it was imposing tariffs on solar panels and washing machines that were aimed at curbing cheap imports from China and South Korea.China is still being moderate and is appropriately counterattacking, said Li Qiang, chief consultant at Shanghai JC Intelligence Company, an agriculture consulting firm. Both sides appear to be sounding each other out.
HANOI   Vietnam and South Korea agreed on Friday to seek to boost their bilateral trade to $100 billion (70.83 billion pounds) by 2020, or 50 percent more than last year\'s total.A memorandum of understanding, signed in Hanoi during a visit by South Korean President Moon Jae-in, also lays out guidelines for aiming to reduce Vietnam\'s deficit in bilateral trade.After meeting Vietnamese President Tran Dai Quang and signing the MOU,  Moon said South Korea will "contribute" to Vietnam\'s goal of becoming an industrialized economy by lifting bilateral trade to $100 billion by 2020.Trade between Vietnam and South Korea has risen rapidly since a free trade agreement between the two took effect in December 2015.In 2017, South Korea replaced the United States as Vietnam\'s second largest trading partner, after China. It is also the largest source of foreign direct investment in the Southeast Asian economy.Samsung Electronics Co. is the largest single foreign investor in Vietnam, where it has multiple factories.According to Vietnam\'s official customs data, bilateral trade rose 51 percent last year to $66.56 billion. Vietnam\'s deficit with South Korea was $31.9 billion, compared with $21.2 billion in 2016.Vietnam exports mainly garments, cellphones and seafood to South Korea, while its key imports include electronic  components, machinery, fabrics and plastics.(Reporting by Khanh Vu and Mai Nguyen; Editing by Richard Borsuk)
LONDON   Fears of a trade war are roiling financial markets Friday, with stocks under pressure around the world and the dollar in retreat.A day after the Trump administration imposed tariff hikes on Chinese goods, Beijing has threatened import duties on U.S. goods including pork, apples and steel pipes, accentuating fears of a global trade war."For a person who\'s been obsessed with stock market gains since his election victory 16 months ago, President Donald Trump doesn\'t appear too concerned about the impact his tariffs are having at the moment," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA.Though the European Union has been granted a possible exemption, stock markets across the region have fallen sharply. In early afternoon trading, Germany\'s DAX was down 1.7 percent at 11,900 while the FTSE 100 index of British shares fell 0.6 percent to 6,910. France\'s CAC-40 was 1.5 percent lower at 5,089.In Asia, markets ended sharply lower after a stomach-churning ride. Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index plunged 4.5 percent to 20,617.86, its second-biggest daily decline in a year, and South Korea\'s Kospi tumbled 3.2 percent to 2,416.76. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng lost 2.5 percent to 30,309.29 and the Shanghai Composite in mainland China sank 3.4 percent to 3,152.76. Australia\'s S&P/ASX 200 skidded 2 percent to 5,820.70.A day after the Dow Jones industrial average dropped more than 700 points, Wall Street was poised for a steadier session. Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures were down a modest 0.2 percent.Trump is planning to impose tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum. The move is aimed at China, which has been flooding the world with cheap steel and aluminum, but would hurt many other countries, including close allies like the European Union. Trump\'s administration gave some countries, including the EU, Canada and Mexico, an exemption until May 1, pending negotiations.EU Trade chief Cecilia Malmstrom said the plans for steel and aluminum tariffs "are a highly unfortunate unilateral action, which goes against agreed international rules."In a separate case, the Trump administration approved a possible tariff hike on Chinese imports worth up to $60 billion over its complaint that Beijing steals or forces foreign companies to hand over technology.China gave no indication of a possible response but a foreign ministry spokeswoman said Beijing was "fully prepared to defend" its interests."Everybody\'s pushing each other around to do some negotiating," said David Collins, chief operations officer at CMC China Manufacturing Consultants, which advises companies on setting up factories in China. "Trump is negotiating. He\'s pushing back on the Chinese, and the Chinese will push back."On Thursday, investors fled stocks and bought bonds, which sent bond prices higher and yields lower. With interest rates falling, banks took some of the worst losses. Technology and industrial companies, basic materials makers and health care companies also fell sharply.Peter Donisanu, an investment strategy analyst for the Wells Fargo Investment Institute, said the risk of a damaging trade war is still low because the Trump administration is targeting specific goods that aren\'t central to China\'s economy. That could change if it puts tariffs on products like electronics or appliances imported from China."If the Trump administration really wanted to hurt China and start a trade war, then they would go after those larger sectors," he said.The risk of a U.S-China trade war is a regional concern, given the myriad supply chains and other ties across Asia. For example, South Korea\'s largest trading partner is China. The U.S. is its second biggest."I\'m worried that it would affect the national economy," said S. E. Kim, an employee at a construction company in Seoul. "If the U.S. imposes tariffs on China like that, I think there would be some damage on us in the long term as well."The dollar has suffered on concerns over a possible trade war. The euro was up 0.4 percent at $1.2345 while the dollar fell 0.2 percent at 105.08 yen.___Chan reported from Hong Kong.

Stocks on Wall Street closed lower on Friday, ending the worst week for the Standard & Poors 500-stock index in two years, as investors weighed a brewing trade war between China and the United States that could hobble an otherwise healthy global economy.Markets in New York tumbled through the afternoon. The Standard & Poors 500-stock index closed 2 percent lower, and the Dow Jones industrial average lost about 1.8 percent. The Nasdaq composite  hurt by falling share prices in a number of technology companies  lost about 2.4 percent.Fears of a trade war  fueled by tariffs announced by President Trump and in Beijing  caused markets worldwide to shudder.Benchmark indexes in London, Paris and Frankfurt closed lower on Friday. Losses in Asia were much greater. In Tokyo, major exporters like Toyota and Sony helped to lead a 4.5 percent drop in the key index. Shares in Shanghai closed down 3.4 percent. South Korean stocks fell 3.2 percent.Oil futures jumped more than 5 percent, the biggest gain in eight months.Overall, the S.&P. fell 6 percent over the week.Investors are rattled about the economic and inflation impacts of tariffs and a potential trade war, said Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com. This nine-year bull market has been sustained by a growing economy in a low inflation, low interest rate world. Now those conditions are called into question.Traders in particular have focused on the risks to the global economy from tit-for-tat restrictions announced by the United States and China, along with increasingly protectionist moves by Washington elsewhere, as well  the United States has brought in tariffs on steel and aluminum, albeit with exemptions for key allies, and marginalized the World Trade Organization.This can turn ugly on a global scale very quickly, Robert Carnell, chief economist for the Dutch financial services group ING Asia, wrote in a note to clients.Europeans, in particular, took only small comfort from the Trump administrations decision to exempt the European Union from the steel and aluminum tariffs. Business managers and political leaders fear that Europe could be caught in the crossfire of a trade war between two economic superpowers.The United States is Europes largest trading partner, but European countries also have deep ties with China, which is one of the largest buyers of European cars and machinery, and a major source of investment in Europe. Shares of the German automakers BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen all declined Friday morning, reflecting the importance of the Chinese market to their sales.And by securing an exemption from the tariffs, Europe could be perceived as taking sides with the United States against China, said Gabriel Felbermayr, an economist at the Ifo Institute, a research organization in Munich.Instead of a trade war with the United States, Europe now faces the threat of a trade war with China, Mr. Felbermayr said in a statement.Deutsche Bank provided an example of how uncertainty caused by the Trump administration measures could cause chain reactions that would affect other industries.On Thursday, Deutsche Bank sold shares in its DWS Asset Management unit on the stock exchange. But on Friday, declines in global stocks pulled DWS shares below the initial public offering price. Shares of Deutsche Bank, which retained an 80 percent stake in DWS, then fell more than 4 percent before recovering slightly.Markets in the United States fell on Thursday, as Mr. Trump announced $60 billion worth of annual tariffs on Chinese imports. That appeared to be the opening salvo of a trade war, as Beijing announced its own retaliatory tariffs on more than 100 items, including American pork and wine.The trade measures against China were the latest demonstration of Mr. Trumps America First agenda, and they were announced a day before tariffs on global steel and aluminum imports were to come into force.For Europeans, the reprieve announced by the Trump administration from the protectionist measures could be brief.The exemptions will expire on May 1 unless the allies are able to negotiate satisfactory alternative means to address what the administration calls the threat to national security resulting from the United States current levels of steel and aluminum imports. The exempted group also includes Canada, Mexico, Australia, Argentina, Brazil and South Korea.In addition, the White House said it might impose import quotas to prevent too much foreign metal from flooding into the United States.Tensions escalated on Friday as Beijing responded to Washington with its own tariffs and a warning to avoid damage to the broader picture of Chinese-U.S. cooperation.Some American businesses in China also voiced concern. Our members do not want to see a trade war, said Kenneth Jarrett, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai. The stakes are too high and there would be no winner.But he added that American businesses in China wanted fairer treatment and improved market access in China. The Chinese government has the ability to deliver against that reasonable expectation.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Friday:1. HOW MARKETS REACTED TO TRUMP'S PLAN ON TARIFFS FOR CHINAThe Dow Jones Industrial average plunged more than 700 points after the President's announcement amid worries about a trade war with China.1. ANOTHER CABINET SHAKEUP FOR WHITE HOUSEPresident Trump announced he is replacing national security adviser H.R. McMaster with hawkish former U.N. Ambassador John Bolton.1. STUDENT ACTIVISTS SAY PLANNING MARCH FOR OUR LIVES IS MORE THAN HOMEWORKThe teens from Majory Stoneman Douglas High have pulled all-nighters scheduling speakers, petitioning city councils, and handling TV appearances to promote the protest against gun violence.1. WHICH COUNTRY WILL GET $1B IN ARMS FROM U.S.The White House says it will approve the arms sale to Saudi Arabia, including 6,700 anti-tank missiles.1. RECORDING OF POLICE SHOOTING OF UNARMED MAN IN SACRAMENTO RAISES QUESTIONSBody camera and helicopter footage don't clearly depict what Stephon Clark was doing before police opened fire, and an arriving officer had the two original officers turn off the cameras' microphones.1. WHAT SPECIAL COUNSEL ROBERT MUELLER WANTS TO KNOW ABOUT CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICAInvestigators are said to be asking about the data mining firm's relationship to the Trump campaign and how the campaign used data in battleground states.1. SEA LIONS VERSUS SALMON: NO CLEAR WINNERSThe California mammals are feasting on fragile populations of endangered Chinook salmon in Oregon, prompting talk about killing some of the sea lions.1. TOYS R US FOUNDER DIESCharles P. Lazarus died at 94, a week after the toy store that once drove trends in child's play announced it was going out of business.1. REBOOTED 'ROSEANNE' KEEPS ITS WORKING-CLASS COMEDIC ROOTSThe revival features the same careworn couch as the original, and now the characters' verbal jousting involves comments from both sides of the Trump divide.1. MINOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS COULD LOSE MINIMUM WAGE PROTECTIONSA provision in the spending bill headed to the Senate would mean players, who earn as little as $5,500 per season, wouldn't be paid overtime.
(Reuters) - Germany\'s economy minister on Friday welcomed U.S. President Donald Trump\'s decision to temporarily exclude European Union countries from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum and called for more international cooperation on trade.Trump said on Thursday he would suspend tariffs for the EU, the United States\' biggest trading partner, and for Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico and South Korea. The tariffs are suspended until May 1 as discussions continue."I am very pleased that we have avoided a situation for the German steel and aluminum industry and its workers that could have led to great uncertainty," Economy Minister Peter Altmaier told Deutschlandfunk radio."We don\'t want further unilateral measures; rather we want sensible agreements," he added. "Our goal is that at the end of these talks, the international trade architecture must be more stable - there must be more cooperation, not less."Trump took the first steps on Thursday toward imposing long-promised anti-China tariffs, though his actions appeared to a warning shot rather than the start of a full-blown trade war with Beijing.Altmaier called for more international cooperation "not just against China, but against all those who harm the rules of fair world trade.""We have over-capacity and there are some countries who sell their steel below production costs, so they incur a loss to promote their steel on the world market ... that is unacceptable," he said.China urged the United States on Friday to "pull back from the brink" as President Donald Trump\'s plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods moved the world\'s two largest economies closer to a trade war.(Reporting by Paul Carrel and Georg Merziger, editing by Douglas Busvine, Larry King)
BEIJING   China\'s threat of steep tariffs on American pork imports will put further pressure on an industry already facing weaker demand from the world\'s top buyer of the meat.Beijing said on Friday it was considering levying an additional 15 percent tariff on U.S. products including dried fruit, wine and steel pipes, and an extra 25 percent duty on pork products and recycled aluminum in response to U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum.Some industry participants said the tariffs and the threat of a brewing trade war between China and the United States would create more Chinese demand for European pork exporters, who have boosted supplies to China in the last two years after sanctions on Russia closed one of the region\'s key markets."Even without the tariffs, with such low prices, we will use more domestic pork for our Chinese business," said Luis Chein, a company director at WH Group, China\'s top pork producer and its biggest importer of U.S. pork.WH Group has also been increasing its supplies from South American and European countries in recent years, said Chein.Rapid expansion of large-scale pig farms in China has been boosting domestic supply and lowering production costs. As a result, China\'s pork prices are currently hovering around 10 yuan ($1.58) per kg, their lowest level in nearly four years and already squeezing demand for imports.It is not yet clear if or when China will implement the tariffs in response to U.S. President Donald Trump\'s plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods.Even so, overall Chinese pork imports are set to fall by as much as 30 percent this year because of the decline in domestic hog prices, said Feng Yonghui, chief researcher with industry website Soozhu.com."Currently U.S. pork doesn\'t have much of an advantage," said Feng.An importer based in eastern China\'s Shandong province said: "With those tariffs, we wouldn\'t import U.S. pork. We would just import from Germany and Denmark."China plays a valuable role in the global pork market because of its demand for "variety meats" - pig feet, elbows and offal - which have little value otherwise.The United States was by far its biggest overseas supplier of those parts last year, shipping 416,000 tonnes, worth $874 million. Germany was a distant second with 147,000 tonnes, according to Chinese customs data.Total U.S. pork exports to China were worth $1.16 billion."This [tariffs on U.S. pork] will have a big impact on our import trade but our company also does domestic pork so overall the impact is not so bad," said an import manager at Beijing Changxinchang Food Products Co Ltd.(Reporting by Dominique Patton; Additional reporting by Beijing Newsroom; Editing by Tony Munroe and Tom Hogue)
TOKYO   Rio Tinto expects the global iron ore market to stay balanced through 2019 despite a likely moderation in steel demand growth in China, the world\'s biggest steel consumer, a senior executive said on Friday."I think the iron ore market is pretty well balanced...We don\'t see remarkable change in supply and demand balance through 2019," Chris Salisbury, chief executive iron ore at Rio Tinto, told Reuters in an interview.Rio, the world\'s second largest iron ore miner, expects solid demand for the steel-making ingredient, especially for its high-grade iron ore as Chinese steelmakers increasingly focus on higher productivity and lower emissions.Higher quality ore produces more steel for each tonne that is processed, and can reduce emissions as less coke is used in production."We will see a slowdown in China overall as the economy will moderate through 2019," Salisbury said. But he noted the miner will continue to increase output of higher grade ore to meet increasing demand in China.A rise in China\'s stocks of rebar, a construction steel product, to nearly five-year highs reflected a rebound from extremely low inventory levels in 2017, he said."We\'ve gone through a construction slowdown during the winter period, but steel production was still quite strong during the period and what we are seeing is a little bit of imbalance between steel production and construction offtake," he said. "It\'s not catastrophic."Rio, which supplies about 330 million tonnes of iron ore a year to mainly Asian customers, plans to spend $1 billion a year over the next three years for maintenance of its iron ore mines.It will also invest another $3 billion in total on new iron ore mines, including the Koodaideri mine in the Pilbara region in Australia, Salisbury said.Rio was on track to finish a feasibility study this year for the planned "intelligent" Koodaideri mine, which will fully incorporate technologies such as robotics and driverless trains and trucks on a single site, he said.Salisbury downplayed the impact on the steel market of U.S. tariffs and the potential for retaliation by other countries.The United States is imposing import duties of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminium from Friday, although U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday temporarily excluded six countries and the European Union from the duties."The portion of steel exports of our iron ore customers in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and China to the United States is quite small," he said.(Reporting by Yuka Obayashi; editing by Richard Pullin)

A cold war is being waged across the worlds most advanced industries. And it just got a lot chillier.Recent tit-for-tat trade actions could deepen what has become a global contest for technological dominance between the United States and China, home to the planets largest population of internet users and a flourishing community of start-ups and innovative companies.The Trump administration this week accused Beijing of stealing valuable technological know-how from American companies as it proposed tariffs on $60 billion in Chinese goods and curbs on Chinese investments. China responded with its own set of penalties aimed at American products.The fight between the two countries is cleaving the high-tech realm. The worlds two biggest economies have each become increasingly protective of their own leading-edge industries, and mistrustful of the others. Reconciliation looks difficult. And the rising tensions could further undercut American influence in a huge and fast-changing market.Both sides have been putting up defensive walls for years.To stay in business in China, Apple has had to set up a data center there to store Chinese customers personal information. Amazon recently had to sell equipment to its Chinese cloud services partner to comply with new Chinese rules. Facebook and Twitter are blocked in the country; newer American players, such as Snap, are not even trying to enter anymore.In the United States, regulators have repeatedly thwarted attempts by Chinese tech groups to acquire American firms. And espionage concerns have for years kept Huawei  one of the worlds biggest suppliers of telecom gear, and a powerhouse of Chinas tech scene  largely out of the American market.The Trump administration says it wants to level the playing field, dishing out to Chinese companies the kind of treatment that American ones have been receiving in China for some time.Chinas abilities and ambitions have shifted much further up the value-added chain, to tech that represents our crown jewels economically and that is relevant for national security, said Scott Kennedy, a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. So theres no way to kick this can down the road anymore.Still, as much as American companies complain about how they are treated in China, it could get even worse if Beijing amplifies its retaliation beyond the tariffs, announced Friday, on $3 billion worth of goods.China could require that foreign tech companies undergo costly additional tests for new products, or simply make it more difficult to operate in the country. Apple, whose iPhones remain coveted among well-off Chinese, made nearly $18 billion in the country in the last quarter of 2017. Qualcomm, the San Diego microchip maker, has earned half its revenue in China in recent years.It could also devise new regulatory hoops for foreign companies to jump through. Chinas Ministry of Commerce has not yet approved Qualcomms proposed, $44 billion purchase of NXP Semiconductors, a Dutch chip maker. The deal, more than a year in the making, needs a signoff from Chinese antitrust authorities because the two companies count a large number of electronics makers in China as customers.Both countries efforts to kneecap each others tech champions are as much about national security as economic might. Likewise with the race to dominate frontier fields such as artificial intelligence, quantum computing and next-generation wireless internet. Mr. Trump recently blocked a hostile bid by Broadcom to buy Qualcomm. He did so not because the bidder was Chinese  Broadcom is headquartered in Singapore  but because the administration said the deal would weaken Qualcomm, leaving Huawei with a stronger hand to shape 5G, or fifth-generation mobile technology.This is why the present tensions are so difficult to resolve. In a previous era, Japan was a technological rival but a military ally. The Soviet Union was a tech rival in defense, though a laggard in the commercial sphere.The U.S. and China have so intertwined their science and technology systems through trade and investment and cooperative research  but see each other, and continue to see each other, as strategic competitors and adversaries, said Adam Segal, a tech and security expert at the Council on Foreign Relations. That hasnt happened before.Chinas angst about foreign tech dominance runs deep.For most of the past decade, Beijing has blocked many American internet services, including Facebooks and Googles, to control the flow of information and head off social media-fueled movements such as the Arab Spring.Another great paroxysm of worry came in 2013, when Edward J. Snowden leaked documents showing ties between American technology providers and the National Security Agencys vast surveillance program.For China, one of the major takeaways was, We are overly reliant on American technology over which we have very little control, said Rogier Creemers, a scholar of Chinese tech policy at Leiden University in the Netherlands.A Communist Party-linked newsmagazine singled out the American companies that it said had penetrated most deeply into Chinas information infrastructure. The Eight Guardian Warriors, as they were called  Apple, Cisco, Google, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Oracle and Qualcomm  had been able to drive right into China, the article said, whereas Huawei and another Chinese equipment maker, ZTE, had been kept out of the United States.Beijing swung into action. It banned government offices from installing the most recent version of Microsoft Windows, and antitrust investigators raided Microsofts offices. Cisco, Apple and Intel products were removed from state lists that officials use as guides when buying equipment. Qualcomm got slapped with a $975 million fine for anticompetitive behavior.The political pressure sent American companies scrambling to link up with Chinese partners, leading to joint ventures of the sort that the Trump administration, and some in the American business community, have decried as unfair.Cisco partnered with a Chinese firm to sell networking systems. Microsoft, in conjunction with a state company closely tied to the Chinese military, developed a version of Windows more suitable for Chinas government. Advanced Micro Devices, Intel and Qualcomm began working with Chinese organizations in microchips, which China imports in huge quantities to put into smartphones, computers and other electronics.Despite the boost from Americas giants, and hefty doses of state funding, Chinas semiconductor push is still in its early days. But most observers believe that it is only a matter of time before Chinese factories catch up to those at industry leaders in the United States, South Korea and Taiwan.They are very conscious that they still have a long way to go, said Dieter Ernst, a senior fellow at the East-West Center, a research and educational organization based in Honolulu. But they also know that in semiconductors, they are by far the most important market for American companies.One stumbling block for China: Attempts to scoop up foreign chip makers mostly have not worked out. State-owned Tsinghua Unigroup tried to buy Micron Technology, a memory chip maker based in Idaho, for $23 billion in 2015, but regulatory worries scuttled the deal.The Trump administration last year blocked a China-backed investor from buying Lattice Semiconductor, an Oregon-based manufacturer. And regulatory concerns scotched a Chinese investment groups plan to buy Xcerra, even though the Massachusetts-based company makes chip-testing equipment and not chips themselves.In Washington, concern about the emerging rivalry with China has been reflected in a number of recent reports, from the likes of the Pentagon and the Department of Energy, that warn about the countrys growing tech capabilities. Still, shorter-term considerations could mean that Washington would back down before Beijing in an all-out trade war.If the markets take a nose-dive as we move closer to the midterm elections, Mr. Kennedy of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said, that would put some pressure on Trump to look for face-saving solutions, even if final problems havent been addressed.
HANOI, Vietnam   Vietnam and South Korean aim to substantially increase their bilateral trade during President Moon Jae-in\'s three-day visit to the Southeast Asian country.South Korea has become Vietnam\'s largest foreign investor and second-biggest trading partner since diplomatic relations were established in 1992. Bilateral trade stood at $61.5 billion last year.Speaking to reporters at a joint news briefing with Vietnamese President Tran Dai Quang in Hanoi, Moon said the two leaders aim for $ 100 billion by 2020."President Quang has said the country aims to build itself into a modern industrial state by 2020. I emphasized (to him) that close and mutually beneficial cooperation between the countries will greatly contribute to achieving our mutual goal of reaching $100 billion in mutual trade by 2020," Moon said.Moon said the two countries agreed to hold annual summits and that "heartfelt talks between the leaders will provide an opportunity to deepen trust between the two countries."Quang said that after 25 years of establishing diplomatic relations, the ties have grown in "a rapid, comprehensive and effective manner." He also encouraged South Korean companies to expand their investments in Vietnam, particularly in infrastructure, high-tech industries, energy and supporting industries.The two leaders on Friday witnessed the signing of several agreements promoting trade, transport, labor and infrastructure cooperation.Soon after arriving on Thursday, Moon also met with South Korean coach Park Hang-seo and dozens of players from Vietnam Under 23 football team. Park led his team to runner-up title at the Asian U23 championship in China in January, the country\'s highest in Asia-wide football competition.Park and the team were given a rock-star welcome in Hanoi.Moon also met with the Communist Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong on Friday morning and is scheduled to meet the prime minister and parliament speaker before departing Saturday.
BIDDEFORD, Maine   China\'s hunger for American lobsters is helping keep prices high to U.S. consumers, but a tariff on the seafood does not appear imminent.The Asian country imported more than 17.8 million pounds of lobster from America in 2017, eclipsing the previous record of about 14 million pounds in 2016, federal statistics state. The value of the imports also surged from $108.3 million in 2016 to $142.4 million last year, according to data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.China\'s growing interest in the premium U.S. seafood item is happening just as the Trump administration is engaging in a trade battle with the country. China has targeted dozens of U.S. products for new tariffs, including some food items such as nuts and pork, but lobsters aren\'t on the list.The increased imports are also happening just as American fishermen might be starting to slip in volume of catch. Fishermen in Maine, the biggest lobster fishing state, saw catch fall from 132.5 million pounds to 110.8 million pounds last year.Prices have been high to consumers at home, with lobsters fetching more than $12 per pound in some New England markets. More exports to Asia coupled with smaller catches could keep those prices up, said Bill Bruns, operations manager with Lobster Company of Arundel, Maine, a lobster exporter."It\'s commodity based. You raise the price. It wouldn\'t be any different with apples, oranges or pickles," Bruns said. "But if it\'s too expensive, nobody wants it."Chinese lobster imports from the U.S. began surging in 2011, when they exceeded a million pounds for the first time. The value of America\'s lobster exports to China have also ballooned in that time, increasing by a factor of almost 20 since 2010. Exports to Hong Kong, which are tallied separately, have also increased, though they plateaued at around $50 million around 2013 and have stayed there since.The growth is happening against the backdrop of a strained relationship between the world\'s two largest economics. The Trump administration announced Thursday that it would impose tariffs on $60 billion on Chinese goods. China then announced its own new tariffs on everything from American aluminum scrap to dried fruits.The value of China\'s lobster imports is likely to fluctuate, but the sheer volume of the crustaceans that the country is taking from the U.S. shows interest is at an all-time high, said John Sackton, a market analyst who publishes the SeafoodNews.com website."What that shows is the expansion of lobster sales in China is continuing to grow very rapidly," he said.Industry members have tied the growth of lobster exports to China to the expanding middle class in the country. Exports have also increased in recent years to other Asian countries, such as Thailand, which imported its largest total in history last year at more than 675,000 pounds. The country imported less than 50,000 pounds in 2010.South Korea imported less than 700,000 pounds of American lobster in 2010 and more than 2.4 million pounds last year. Vietnam imported almost nothing in 2010 and took more than 4 million pounds last year.
BEIJING  Shen Zhihua, bon vivant, former businessman, now Chinas foremost Cold War historian, has set himself a near-impossible task. He wants China to peel back its secrets, throw open its archives and tell its citizens what went on between China and the United States, between China and North Korea, and much more.Even before the hard-line era of President Xi Jinping, the Communist Party has acted like a supersensitive corporation, blocking highly regarded historians like Mr. Shen from peering too deeply. Precious documents have been destroyed, stolen or kept under seal by librarians skilled at deflecting the inquiries of even the most tenacious researchers.Chinese leaders have historical baggage, Mr. Shen, who will turn 68 next month, said over a glass of white wine at a handsome villa hidden behind a high wall in the heart of Beijing. His tousled graying hair, casual jacket and open-necked shirt depart sharply from the buttoned-down party look.The party was popular, but after 1949 the party made a lot of mistakes: land reform, the Cultural Revolution, the Great Leap Forward. People might ask: Since you have made so many mistakes, why are you still in power? The party is unnecessarily nervous, he argues. If you look at Chinese history, none can replace the Communist Party. Most of the elite is in the party. The party shouldnt worry about being challenged. If I was running the propaganda department, I would say: Those mistakes were made in the past, not now, and we need to learn from our mistakes. The party frets so much that Mr. Shen  who possesses a blue-ribbon political pedigree  cannot get access even to documents deemed accessible under a law passed in 1996 that said archives would be open to the public after 30 years. The law has never been followed.Hence, Chinas version of Nixons visit in 1972 and its accounts of the precursor trips by Henry Kissinger remain largely unknown. What went on between Mao and the North Korean leader Kim Il-sung during the Korean War is only sketchily understood from Chinas point of view.With Xia Yafeng of Long Island University, Mr. Shen is the author of the seminal work on Chinas relations with North Korea, A Misunderstood Friendship: Mao Zedong, Kim Il-sung and Sino-North Korean relations 1949-1976, which will be published in English later this year. The book relies heavily on the archives in Moscow and Central Europe that tumbled open after the collapse of the Soviet Union.But he made some lucky finds in libraries in northeastern China, too, while also extracting papers from reluctant librarians at Chinas major archives. And through his connections with top party officials, he secured access to a memorandum of conversations between Mao and the North Korean leader, a trove that had never before been made public.In the book, Mr. Shen demolishes the myth that China and North Korea were tightly allied, as close as lips to teeth, as Chinas propagandists insisted. He shows that even before the start of the Korean War in 1950, relations between the two newly installed Communist parties were tense. Mr. Kim, the grandfather of the current North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, invaded South Korea without notifying Mao. The Chinese were informed three days after the fact.Despite his current pursuits, Mr. Shen is hardly the scholarly sort who has spent his life buried in the stacks. He started out as a crack Navy pilot, but that ended when he was falsely accused of murder by a jailhouse snitch. Mr. Shen was freed after the informer recanted, but was jailed again in the early 1980s on an accusation of spying for the United States.Mr. Shen says the spying charge stemmed from his giving some articles and documents on Chinese agrarian reform to an American student who, unbeknown to him, was suspected by the authorities of having links to the C.I.A.During his two years in prison, he invented a way to write by fashioning an empty toothpaste tube into a pen. He asked for books on Mao, Marx and Lenin (The prison authorities didnt dare deny that), and wrote notes for his first work  on Soviet agriculture  in the margins of the Soviet Unions New Economic Policy, using an upturned washbowl balanced on his knees as a desk.When he got out of jail the second time, he had weathered enough to know that his personal diary  a foot-high stack of notebooks going back to high school  was a time bomb, one that the authorities could use for blackmail.So in 1985, before heading to southern China to begin a career in business, he burned the diaries, tossing them page by page into a coal furnace, an odd act for someone who would later campaign for the preservation of records. Very bittersweet, he said. I didnt want to leave anything in writing which might cause me further trouble.It was the period of Chinas economic reforms, and Mr. Shen became a successful gold trader, eventually earning enough to quit the business and devote himself full-time to his historical research.Mr. Shen grew up in Beijing, the son of a successful Communist Party bureaucrat who rose to become the second in command of Chinas prison system. Despite Mr. Shens run-ins with the communist system, he holds an almost perfect Communist Party pedigree: his father had joined Mao at his army base in Yanan during the civil war and his father-in-law was a good friend of the father of the current president, Mr. Xi.He appreciates that delving into the Communist Partys past requires functioning like a guerrilla historian, not a starchy academic, so he has taken his drive for transparency beyond Chinas borders.His government-funded Research Institute for Asian Neighborhood Studies in Shanghai allows Mr. Shen and his students to travel to one-party states in Asia and Eastern Europe to collect documents that are then copied and cataloged at the institute.North Korea would seem a natural hunting ground. On a visit to Beijing, a senior North Korean official invited Mr. Shen to Pyongyang to look at the archives, airfare and lodging paid, but he declined. I was worried if I went, I wouldnt be allowed out.During his travels around China, he is not shy about offering his opinions on the current situation on the Korean Peninsula. He caused a stir last year when he told a closed-door seminar that China would be better off allying with South Korea than the North. (The lecture later circulated on the internet.)You can see how much attention and admiration he commands when he speaks at forums in China, said Charles Kraus, a historian who specializes in China at the Wilson Center in Washington, where Mr. Shen is a senior fellow. In Changchun in 2015 I remember there were even Shen Zhihua fanboys waiting in the hotel lobby hoping to catch a glimpse of him and get him to autograph books.Mr. Shen will never give up the chase for Chinas historical secrets. But he wonders if the really important documents even exist at this point.When they left office, many senior officials ransacked the files. Zhou Enlais wife is rumored to have taken archives and shredded them. Maos wife is believed to have destroyed documents, too.The Chinese Communist Party kept far fewer records than the party in the Soviet Union, where the unleashing of the archives led to a whole new industry of Cold War history.Russia has a tradition of keeping records, he said. The Chinese Communist Party grew out of an underground operation, was very secretive and didnt record many things. Of the 1950s Politburo meetings there are few records. They never wrote things down.He is thankful his political connections have helped him to at least get in the door of important Chinese archives. But being inside is often not enough.A friend in the bureaucracy once explained the problem, he said:  You know about the 1996 law,  the friend told him,  But you dont know about the 10 nos. Theres no looking up religion, diplomacy, personal affairs of state leaders. I said, What can I look up? The person said, Basically nothing. 
TOKYO   Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said on Friday that he would closely watch the United States\' move to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.Aso made the comment just hours after U.S. President Donald Trump signed a presidential memorandum that will target Chinese imports, though only after a 30-day consultation period that gives China space to respond.The threatened tariffs and possible investment restrictions on China stem from a U.S. investigation of alleged theft of  U.S. intellectual property by Chinese companies."Japan, as well as the United States, understands the importance of strengthening and effectively enforcing protection of intellectual property," Aso told reporters after a cabinet meeting.Aso added that he needed to examine the U.S. memorandum in detail.The yen hit a 16-month high against the dollar on Friday as traders sought safety in the Japanese currency after the U.S. announcement caused worry over global trade tensions, triggering a selloff on Wall Street and stock markets in Asia.The dollar fell to as low as 104.635 yen, its lowest since November 2016, in early Asian trade as the safe haven Japanese currency pushed higher.Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga warned against yen\'s gains on Friday, saying that he would closely monitor market movements "with a sense of urgency".The top government spokesman also said it would be extremely regrettable if U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum apply to Japan, and that he would continue to urge the United States to exempt his country.Trump\'s steel and aluminum tariffs, which are tied to Section 232 of the 1962 Trade Expansion Act, go into effect on Friday. Canada and Mexico have been given initial exemptions from the 25 percent steel and 10 percent aluminum tariffs.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer told U.S. lawmakers on Thursday that the European Union, Argentina, Australia, Brazil and South Korea, would also be exempted.(Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Additional reporting by Kaori Kaneko; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim and Eric Meijer)
NANNING, China   Uruguay forward Luis Suarez scored his 50th goal for his country when he won and converted a penalty in a 2-0 friendly win over the Czech Republic on Friday.Edinson Cavani completed the win with an acrobatic effort before halftime as the impressive South Americans sounded a warning to World Cup group opponents Egypt, Russia and Saudi Arabia.Suarez showed typical cunning as he won the penalty in the 10th minute, tumbling over the outstretched leg of goalkeeper Jiri Pavlenka as he chased a ball that was going away from the goal and posed no real danger to the Czech defence.The 31-year-old, making his 96th appearance, fired the spot kick into the roof of the net.With Suarez and Cavani proving a handful for the Czech defence, it was no surprise when the two-times world champions went further ahead in the 37th minute.Nahitan Nandez headed the ball into the Czech area where Cavani, with his back to goal, produced a memorable scissors kick to fire past Pavlenka.(Writing by Brian Homewood in Berne; editing by John Stonestreet)
SEOUL   Samsung Electronics Co Ltd shareholders approved a stock split on Friday making it easier for retail shareholders to hold shares in the tech giant, at an annual meeting also dogged by concerns about global trade tensions.The meeting showcased changes the South Korean firm has made in recent years to build investor goodwill, such as strengthening its dividend policy to share the fruits of a memory chip boom that underpinned record profits in 2017.Shareholders approved the 50:1 stock split announced in January, as well as the appointment of new board directors.But the meeting was overshadowed by prospects of a trade war following U.S. moves to impose anti-China tariffs over what Washington says is misappropriation of U.S. intellectual property, and Chinese threats of retaliation.Samsung Electronics is South Korea\'s biggest exporter, recording $134.7 billion in export sales in 2017, and is vital to global electronics supply chains.Outgoing chairman of the board Kwon Oh-hyun told the meeting Samsung Electronics expected uncertainty from trade protectionism and geopolitical risk to remain through 2018."In a broad sense, we expect uncertainties such as trade protectionism and geopolitical risks to persist throughout the year, and the paradigm in the IT industry to keep shifting," Kwon said.HIGHER CHIP DEMANDCo-CEO Kinam Kim told the meeting in Seoul that the company, the world\'s leading manufacturer of semiconductors, expects demand to increase for value-added memory chips handling large data this year.It also expected greater uncertainty in the organic light-emitting diode (OLED) panel business due to stiffer competition between OLED and liquid crystal display (LCD) panels, and from Chinese LCD makers, said Kim, who heads the company\'s Device Solutions division.On the mobile front, co-CEO and head of the IT & Mobile division, DJ Koh, said the slowdown in mobile market growth was expected to intensify competition this year, making the market environment difficult.Samsung Electronics\' mobile business, which vies with Apple Inc for global dominance, needed more time to recover in China following a reorganization of its sales network there last year, he said. The firm\'s share of the world\'s biggest smartphone market has fallen below 10 percent in the past year.Samsung Electronics Vice Chairman Jay Y. Lee, who has been out after a year-long detention since receiving a suspended sentence for bribery earlier this year, did not attend.Lee, who remains a board director, has not appeared in a public schedule since an early February release.(Reporting by Joyce Lee; Editing by Stephen Coates)
PERTH, Australia   Volunteers in western Australia have managed to rescue only five of 150 short-finned pilot whales that became stranded on a beach.The surviving whales, up to 5 1/2 meters (16.4 feet) long, have been moved to deeper waters, but Parks and Wildlife Service Incident Controller Jeremy Chick warned Saturday that whales often return to dry land after mass stranding events.He's asking the public at Hamelin Bay, south of Perth, to keep an eye in case they spot a stranded whale.A sixth whale was freed into shallow waters overnight but it beached again and had to be euthanized.Authorities said they will continue to sweep the surrounding beaches by air and sea on Saturday. Rescue efforts were hampered by dead whales in the water, rocky terrain and rough seas.The carcasses were removed from the beach and authorities took DNA samples in an attempt to collect clues about why whales strand.In 2009, more than 80 whales and dolphins died on a beach in Hamelin Bay.The biggest mass stranding of whales in Western Australia happened in 1996 in Dunsborough. That year, 320 long-finned pilot whales beached themselves.
NEW YORK   Stocks around the world plunged Friday as investors feared that a trade conflict between the U.S. and China, the biggest economies in the world, would escalate. A second day of big losses pushed U.S. stocks to their worst week in two years.Investors fear that if China responds in kind to sanctions on $60 billion worth of Chinese imports the White House announced on Thursday, it will be a first step toward a full-blown trade war that could damage the global economy and slash profits at big U.S. exporters like Apple and Boeing.The market\'s two biggest sectors slumped the most. Technology stocks have made enormous gains over the past year, but since they do so much business outside the U.S., investors see them as particularly vulnerable in a trade dispute. The sector dropped 7.9 percent this week.Banks also fell sharply. Amid the trade-war rumblings, investors fled to the safety of bonds and drove down yields, a potential negative for bank profits. That marked a reversal from earlier in the week, when banks rose as the Federal Reserve raised interest rates.It wound up being the worst week for U.S. indexes since January 2016. The S&P 500 index sank 6 percent. Among notable decliners was Facebook, which lost 13.9 percent, or $68 billion in value, as outrage mounted over its handling of user data. That\'s about as much as the company was worth in in 2012, the year of its initial public offering.Stocks sagged at the start of this month after tariffs on aluminum and steel were announced, but they quickly recovered as the administration said the tariffs wouldn\'t be as severe as they first looked. The losses this week were worse, and investors are hoping for hints the sanctions on China are more of a negotiating tactic."There could be a possibility of a bounce back if, as this progresses, both sides look like they\'re negotiating," said Lisa Erickson, chief investment officer at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. "There could be further decline if people get a sense there could be more trade restrictions in place."The S&P 500 index dropped 55.43 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,588.26 on Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 424.69 points, or 1.8 percent, to 23,533.20. The Nasdaq composite fell 174.01 points, or 2.4 percent, to 6,992.67.Germany\'s DAX lost 1.8 percent and the French CAC-40 fell 1.4 percent. The FTSE 100 in Britain dipped 0.4 percent. Japan\'s benchmark Nikkei 225 index plunged 4.5 percent and South Korea\'s Kospi tumbled 3.2 percent. Hong Kong\'s Hang Seng lost 2.5 percent.Big U.S. companies tend to get more of their revenue from foreign customers than small companies do, and that makes them more vulnerable to damage from a trade war. With nearly 1.4 billion people, China is a big market for the largest U.S. businesses.Not every company breaks out how much of its revenue comes from abroad, but FactSet estimates that 30.5 percent of revenue at big companies in the S&P 500 comes from outside the United States. For the smaller companies in the S&P 600 index, it\'s just 19.5 percent. Smaller companies are also getting a bigger benefit from the recent cut in corporate tax rates."We think a lot of the areas in the market with the greatest potential for earnings improvement this year are small- and mid-cap stocks, things that have the biggest benefit from tax reform and are less subject to trade wars," said Eric Marshall, portfolio manager at Hodges mutual funds.The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks sank 33.79 points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,510.08, but it\'s flat this month while the S&P 500 is down 4.6 percent.Sales outside the U.S. are especially important for technology companies. Roughly $1 of every $5 in Apple\'s sales came from China, Hong Kong and Taiwan in its last year. That doesn\'t take into account how much of the manufacturing and assembly of Apple products is done in Chinese factories, which could be affected if trade restrictions start piling up. On Friday chipmakers fared especially badly.Investors kept buying bonds, sending prices higher and yields lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note slipped to 2.81 percent from 2.83 percent.In another sign investors are nervous, gold and silver prices jumped. Gold climbed $22.50, or 1.7 percent, to $1,349.90 an ounce and silver gained 20 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $16.58 an ounce. The dollar fell to 104.82 yen from 105.61 yen. The euro rose to $1.2367 from $1.2307.Defense contractors including Raytheon and Lockheed Martin climbed after President Donald Trump signed a new government funding bill that provides increases in military spending. He had tweeted a threat to veto the measure.The price of oil climbed $1.58, or 2.5 percent, to $65.88 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, the international standard for oil prices, added $1.54, or 2.2 percent, to $70.45 a barrel in London.Wholesale gasoline rose 2 cents to $2.04 a gallon. Heating oil added 3 cents to $2.02 a gallon. Natural gas dipped 3 cents to $2.59 per 1,000 cubic feet.Copper fell 3 cents to $2.99 a pound.____Stan Choe contributed from New York. Kelvin Chan contributed from Hong Kong and Pan Pylas contributed from London.
BRUSSELS   European Union leaders vented their frustration Friday at U.S. President Donald Trump\'s trade tactics, saying he is putting undue pressure on key allies by allowing barely a month of time to negotiate an exemption from punitive tariffs on steel and aluminum."It is a sort of gun to our head," Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel said. "It is a strange way to negotiate with a partner."The mood darkened at the table where the 28 EU leaders met for their summit when it became clear that the tariffs exemption for the EU would only last until May 1."The solution is not considered satisfactory," French President Emmanuel Macron said. He insisted Trump was taking the wrong approach to fighting dumping practices, in which countries overproduce a good and sell it on the market for very low prices. China has been singled out for dumping steel and aluminum on the global market."The U.S. strategy is a bad strategy," Macron said.The United States and the EU are planning high-level talks to address trade imbalances which both sides see mainly being instigated by China. But instead of cooperation, the EU sees attempts Trump\'s move as divisive.EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said the five weeks was not enough to have coherent negotiations."It seems to me highly impossible to cover all the issues we have to discuss with our American partners from now to May 1 and we are asking a permanent exemption," he said.Macron warned that if Trump does impose the tariffs, the EU stands ready to pounce."If we are attacked, we will react, showing no weakness. Everybody should realize this," Macron said.The EU, the world biggest trading bloc, already has a list of U.S. goods to retaliate against that includes products from bourbon to jeans, motorcycles to orange juice. It seeks to hurt industries that are important to the Trump electorate.Among the things that angers EU leaders most in the case is that Trump is citing national security as a reason for the tariffs, when Europeans say that they have shown strategic loyalty for decades.The U.S. government is imposing tariffs of 25 percent on imported steel and 10 percent on aluminum. Besides the EU,  Australia, Argentina, Brazil, South Korea, Canada and Mexico have also been given a temporary exemption.The EU acknowledges that fundamental problems exist in the metals industry, but says there should be trans-Atlantic cooperation instead of competition, and certainly not hindered by the weight of temporary exemptions to trade sanctions."These discussions between allies and partners should not be subject to artificial deadlines," EU trade chief Cecilia Malmstrom said.___Jill Lawless and Lorne Cook contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON   U.S. President Donald Trump has temporarily excluded six  countries, including Canada and Mexico, and European Union states from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum meant to come into effect on Friday.In a presidential proclamation published late on Thursday, Trump said he would suspend tariffs for Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, Canada, Mexico and the European Union, the U.S.\'s biggest trading partner, until May 1, 2018 as discussions continue.After May 1, Trump would decide whether to permanently exempt the countries based on the status of talks, the White House said in a statement.The United States was set to begin imposing the higher import duties of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, mainly aimed at curbing imports from China, as of 12:01 a.m. EST on Friday."I have determined that the necessary and appropriate means to address the threat to the national security posed by imports from steel articles from these countries is to continue these discussions and to exempt steel articles imports from these countries from the tariff, at least at this time," according to Trump\'s proclamation released by the White House.It said countries not on the list could discuss with Washington ways to address U.S. national security concerns caused by imports of steel from that country.Earlier, German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned that the EU would respond firmly if the United States did not exempt European steel and aluminum.The European Commission had proposed that if U.S. tariffs were applied the bloc would challenge them at the World Trade Organization.Canada and Mexico are in the midst of renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement with the United States. Trump had said Canada and Mexico would only be excluded after the successful renegotiation of NAFTA.Trump said South Korea was listed because of its important security relationship with the United States, "including our shared commitment to eliminating the North Korean nuclear threat."South Korean President Moon Jae-in is pushing for a three-way leaders\' summit with North Korea and the United States aimed at ending the nuclear threat on the Korean peninsula. Trump has said he is willing to participate in the meeting although no date or location has been set.(Reporting by Lesley Wroughton; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore and Kim Coghill)
DUBLIN   Just last month nervy investors were glued to their screens for the release of inflation data from the world\'s advanced economies after fears of a faster than anticipated return of price growth rocked global stock and bond markets.However inflation readings next week from the likes of Germany, France and Italy will take a distance second place to fears of a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies that has sent a further shiver through financial markets.China urged the United States to "pull back from the brink" on Friday as President Donald Trump\'s plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion (42.5 billion) in Chinese goods prompted concern among investors of potential dire consequences for the global economy.After Trump also continued a national security shake-up that takes his foreign policy in a more hawkish direction, Eurasia Group President Ian Bremmer remarked on Twitter that it was "probably the worst/biggest single day for geopolitical risk" since he founded the political risk firm in 1998.Rhetoric rather than economics could be the main driver of sentiment in the short term, as suggested by Germany\'s bellwether Ifo Institute March survey that showed business confidence at its lowest level in nearly a year on protectionism concerns.While Beijing retaliated with tariff plans of its own on Friday, one European Union leader said the EU\'s temporary 40-day exemption from U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium was like Trump "putting a gun to our head.""There is hope of a favourable outcome, given what happened during the trade dispute between the US and Japan in the 1980s, which has many parallels with the current situation and which ultimately did not escalate," Commerzbank economists Christoph Balz and Bernd Weidensteiner wrote in a note."However now, unlike then, the conflict with China is also about demonstrating political muscle so economic considerations may take second place."GLOBAL SLOWDOWN?The rising threat of protectionism comes just as some economists sense that the global recovery is near the top of its economic cycle.In a note titled \'Global growth  is it slowing?\', BNP Paribas Chief Market Economist Paul Mortimer-Lee argued that there are some signals that global growth - recently revised up to 3.9 percent by the IMF for both 2018 and 2019 - may be peaking or easing back.Mortimer-Lee points to Purchasing Managers surveys in some advanced economies that have declined recently, along with some of the OECD\'s leading indicators and the volume and price of Korean semiconductor exports, viewed as a leading indicator of global trade by BNP."Overall, it looks like there are a number of signs of a slower pulse going forward for global growth. That makes protectionism all the more concerning," he said."However, we\'d like to see some Q2 data because Q1 data sometimes tend to be weak due to weather and holidays. At the moment there is a suspicion of a slower pace, but no confirmation."Such suspicions won\'t be much of a feature in backward looking revisions to Q4 GDP figures for the U.S. and Britain next week, while March inflation data for Germany, Italy and France land on Thursday and Friday.South Africa\'s Reserve Bank also meets on Wednesday and is expected to cut its repo rate by 25 basis points to 6.50 percent, according to a Reuters poll of economists.(Reporting by Padraic Halpin)
TOKYO   As U.S. President Donald Trump dealt a blow to China with plans to slap tariffs on $60 billion of trade, he quietly delivered a slap in the face to one of Washington\'s closest allies, Japan, which got no exemption from earlier announced duties.The move to exclude most U.S. allies, but not Japan, from steel and aluminum tariffs that took effect on Friday is an apparent snub to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has assiduously courted Trump since he was elected.U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer also ratcheted up pressure for a bilateral trade pact with Tokyo, which has been in sporadic talks with Washington on cutting Japan\'s trade surplus.Abe was the first foreign leader to travel to New York and meet Trump in the days after the November 2016 election, when he presented him with a golf club worth nearly $4,000 and showered praise on him.Officials tried to put a positive spin on the trade spat, which comes just as Tokyo seeks to coordinate its North Korea policies with those of Washington, an effort complicated by an ever-changing cast of characters at the White House."We are aware that U.S. Trade Representative Lighthizer has been saying the U.S. wants to negotiate a free trade agreement," Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko told reporters on Friday."I understand we will have constructive talks on what\'s the best framework for Japan and the U.S. as well as the Asia-Pacific region under Japan-U.S. economic dialogue. We want to closely communicate with the United States."Trump signed a presidential memorandum on Thursday targeting up to $60 billion in Chinese goods with tariffs after a 30-day consultation period that starts once a list is published.China responded strongly and the escalating tension between Beijing and Washington hit financial markets, with investors fearing dire consequences for the global economy if trade barriers start going up.Lighthizer on Thursday read out a list of countries with which the U.S. was negotiating exemptions from the earlier announced tariffs, among them Argentina, Australia, Brazil, the European Union and South Korea."Retaliation against the U.S. trade measures could destroy the free-trade system," Seko said. "It is extremely important that Japan calmly seeks solutions under the framework of the WTO," he added, referring to the World Trade Organization.Japan, one of 11 countries that signed a new Trans-Pacific trade pact this month after the U.S. withdrew last year, may eventually sign a free trade deal with the U.S., said Junichi Sugawara, a trade policy researcher at the Mizuho Research Institute."Japan probably does not want take a harsh stance considering the relationship over security issues with the United States," he said."There is a chance that Japan will eventually have to start bilateral free trade talks ... even though Japan\'s goal is to get the U.S. to return to the TPP."(GRAPHIC: U.S. Steel Imports - http://reut.rs/2D8jBWa)(Reporting by Ami Miyazaki and Kaori Kaneko; Writing by Aaron Sheldrick; Editing by Chris Gallagher)
NEW YORK   The number of foreign children adopted by U.S. parents dropped more than 12 percent last year, accelerating a decline that\'s now continued for 13 years, according to new State Department figures.Sharp drops in adoptions from China and Congo more than offset notable increases from many countries, including India, Colombia and Nigeria.The department\'s report for the 2017 fiscal year, released Friday, shows 4,714 adoptions from abroad, down from 5,372 in 2016 and nearly 80 percent below the high of 22,884 in 2004. The number has fallen every year since then.China, as has been the case for several years, accounted for the most children adopted in the U.S. by far. But its total of 1,905 was down nearly 15 percent from 2016 and far below a peak of 7,903 in 2005.Suzanne Lawrence, the State Department\'s special adviser on children\'s issues, attributed the lower numbers to increased interest in domestic adoption among China\'s growing middle class. She also said new Chinese regulations affecting non-governmental organizations had disrupted partnerships involving some U.S. adoption agencies.In 2016, Congo was second after China, accounting for 359 adoptions. The number fell to four in 2017 as the Congolese government  which has been concerned about adoption fraud  halted international adoptions pending a possible overhaul of regulations.Replacing Congo as No. 2 in the new report was Ethiopia, accounting for 313 adoptions. It was followed by South Korea, Haiti, India, Ukraine, Colombia and Nigeria.For a third straight year, there were no adoptions from Russia, which once accounted for hundreds of U.S. adoptions annually, but imposed a ban that fully took effect in 2014. The ban served as retaliation for a U.S. law targeting alleged Russian human-rights violators.According to the new report, 83 children were adopted from the United States to seven foreign countries, including 41 to Canada and 20 to the Netherlands.Lawrence noted that international adoptions have been declining worldwide, and said the United States accounts for half of the total, including large numbers of children with special medical and psychological needs.However, the National Council for Adoption, and many of the adoption agencies it represents, have faulted the State Department for failing to reverse the decline in foreign adoptions. This constituency has decried a newly implemented accrediting system that will subject them to tighter monitoring and oversight, and raise fees either for the agencies or for the families they serve."The number of orphaned, abandoned, and relinquished children worldwide continues to grow, yet international adoptions continue to decline," Chuck Johnson, CEO of the adoption council, said in an email. "Does the number have to reach zero before top officials at the Department of State will admit that their policies are failing children miserably?"Johnson called on Congress and President Donald Trump\'s administration to investigate whether officials in the department\'s Office of Children\'s Issues were "purposefully sabotaging intercountry adoption."Thus far, the State Department has taken a tough stance in the face of such criticism, warning that foreign adoptions by U.S. families might grind to a halt if the new accrediting system is disrupted.Assistant Secretary of State Carl Risch, whose dossier includes the Office of Children\'s Issues, issued a statement Thursday saying efforts to maintain international adoption as a viable option "are greatly undermined when foreign countries lose trust in our accreditation system.""The Department will continue its efforts to ensure that the best interests of children and families, both birth and adoptive, are paramount and that they are protected," he said, stressing the need for stringent oversight of U.S. adoption agencies and foreign adoption practices.Concerns about corruption, child-trafficking and baby-selling have prompted the United States to suspend adoptions from several countries in recent years, including Cambodia, Guatemala and Nepal. Domestically, the State Department shut down an Ohio-based adoption agency 14 months ago after alleging extensive improprieties in handling international adoptions.Among other efforts to improve adoption practices, the department is pressuring the agencies to comply with requirements by foreign governments to regularly submit post-adoption reports on the welfare of the adopted children. Negligence in this regard had prompted some countries to warn they might reconsider their support for adoptions to the U.S.___
President Trump pushed forward with a two-pronged trade offensive this week, enacting tariffs on imported aluminum and steel on Friday, a day after announcing levies on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods. The target of both actions is China, a country that Mr. Trump has called an economic enemy of the United States.For now, the administration has given exemptions from the first set of tariffs to multiple nations, making it clear that the main point is to curb the influx of cheap Chinese metals.Beijings initial response has been muted, setting the stage for what could be a methodical escalation of retaliatory measures. The Chinese government announced Friday that it planned to impose tariffs on just $3 billion in American products, including fruit, pork, wine, seamless steel pipes and more than 100 other goods. Missing were vulnerable prey like aircraft and soybeans, which experts say may come next if tensions continue to build.Theres clearly uncertainty about how the tariffs will play out. Heres what we do know.Markets around the world tumbled on the news of the new tariff package, but for now, the panic seems premature. Sixty billion sounds like a big number, but the reality is that the measures would barely dent the $11 trillion Chinese economy. And the Chinese retaliation for the aluminum and steel tariffs, at least initially, is even milder.Of course, the worst fears of exporters could still come true. The fact that the Chinese did not hit bigger American targets from the outset suggests that the Beijing government is guarding its most potent weapons. If Mr. Trump decides to raise the ante on the Chinese, things could get ugly.China is the United States third-largest export market, and a top destination for agricultural goods harvested in Trump strongholds. Beijing said that it would impose a 15 percent tariff on goods like fresh fruit, nuts, wine and seamless steel pipes, and that it was considering a second round of levies, of 25 percent, on other goods, including aluminum.Mr. Trump campaigned on the promise to resurrect American steel mills, and vowed to bring those factory jobs back by stemming the flow of cheap imports into the country. The administration has accused China of flooding the world market with undervalued steel, which can make its way to the United States after landing in another country.Thats why the administration initially announced that its steel and aluminum tariffs would apply worldwide. While the tariffs are explicitly based on national security  the White House argues that the nation is vulnerable because it relies too much on foreign steel and aluminum  there are obvious economic reasons for trying to increase domestic production.But the 25 percent charge on foreign steel and 10 percent levy on aluminum will, at least for now, not apply to a broad group of allies that includes Canada, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, Argentina and the European Union. The excluded nations sent more than half of the $29 billion in steel imports that landed on American shores last year. The administration has said it may require those countries to limit their exports to the United States, and will decide whether to make the reprieve permanent by May 1.So, whats the point of tariffs on steel if they dont apply to the biggest foreign suppliers? The short answer is that no one  not the lawyers representing allies, the lobbyists representing steel mills or the nations foremost experts on trade  knows for sure what the presidents grand plan is.A good bet, trade experts say, is that Mr. Trump is using the tariffs as a bargaining chip to corral allies into adopting a harder line on China.The White House also invited other countries to negotiate their own exemptions, raising the possibility that Japan, the fifth-largest supplier of steel to American companies, could also get a break.Persuading allies to turn away cheap Chinese steel could force China to cut down production even more than it was already planning to.If the Chinese face such a disruption, then they have to eat all that steel, said William Reinsch, a trade expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. I think thats the game thats going on here, to try to get the other countries to play the same game we are, and push the problems back on the Chinese.As for helping the domestic producers, the early indications point in the other direction. Several steel companies are now trading lower than they were before Mr. Trump announced the tariffs, after getting an initial lift from the news.Making metals more expensive will annoy a lot of manufacturers  tens of thousands  that buy them to produce everything from washing machines to beer cans. But will the tariffs make it impossible for those companies to do business?Answering that question will be the task of the Commerce Department, which this week invited American executives to begin applying for exemptions. To avoid paying the tariffs on the steel or aluminum they import, businesses will need to show that American mills dont make the piece they use, or at least dont make enough.Railroads make some of their tracks with Japanese steel, for example, because of its unique ability to withstand pressure and extreme temperatures.Companies have to file separate requests for each type of steel or aluminum product they use. In theory, dozens of companies could ask about the same product and one company could file requests for dozens of slightly different products.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the department could grant blanket requests if it became clear that a particular product couldnt be found in the United States.American producers, meanwhile, will have the right to file an objection to each exclusion plea, piling on yet more paperwork.The Commerce Department anticipates 4,500 requests and 1,500 challenges. It will take up to 90 days for the department to respond to each.
BRUSSELS   The European Union\'s trade chief is unsure what Washington wants in return for a permanent EU exemption from steel tariffs but she warned on Friday that she would resist pressure to cut EU duties on U.S. cars.European Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom, who will lead negotiations on behalf of the 28-state European Union, said it was not clear from her talks with U.S. counterparts this week what would satisfy the ultimate arbiter in the White House."That is what we need to work out," she told Reuters in a telephone interview.Trump has given the EU and six countries until May 1 to negotiate permanent exemptions from tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminium.The EU was already cooperating with the United States on efforts to tackle trade practices, notably in China, which encouraged overcapacity of steel and aluminium, Malmstrom said, and this was one of the sectors raised by U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross for discussion."Then ... they always come back to these car tariffs," she said, referring to longstanding U.S. gripes over EU duties."If you have analysed all the speeches by President Trump, he seems to think that, and I\'m almost quoting him, that the rest of the world is cheating the U.S., that we have unfair trade practices," she added.The EU disputes Trump\'s line on tariffs and his emphasis on cars, for which the U.S. tariff, at 2.5 percent, is lower than the EU\'s 10 percent. For other products, such as trucks, U.S. tariffs are higher than Europe\'s.Malmstrom said the EU, too, had a long list of "trade irritants" with Washington. These include the Buy America Act that requires federal funds for road and rail projects to be spent on American-made goods, and the Jones Act, which requires goods shipped between U.S. ports to be transported on U.S. ships crewed by U.S. citizens."These are things that would be mutually beneficial if we can solve, and we\'re always willing to engage but we need to know what is the expected outcome for May and how serious is that deadline," Malmstrom said.Malmstrom said the May 1 deadline could be a way to apply pressure to talks with NAFTA countries Canada and Mexico and with South Korea on updating their free trade deals, but that no one was proposing to revive stalled EU-U.S. free trade talks."I\'m not sure exactly what this deadline means and what they are expecting from this," she said. "The EU is certainly not negotiating anything under threat, especially when we don\'t really know what it is."(Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Alastair Macdonald and Peter Graff)
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.   President Donald Trump has gotten nowhere in his push to kill federal support for cleaning up some of the nation\'s most prized waterways, as Congress voted to keep funding at current levels  and in some cases, boost it.A $1.3 trillion spending package approved Thursday by the House and early Friday by the Senate includes nearly $448 million for Environmental Protection Agency programs benefiting regional waters degraded by pollution, overdevelopment and exotic species invasions. That\'s an increase from $436 million in the previous budget.By far the biggest recipient is the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which again gets $300 million. It has averaged roughly that amount annually since it was established in 2010 to accelerate removal of toxins in river sediments, fight invaders such as Asian carp and prevent runoff that causes algae blooms.Trump called for eliminating its funding last year and has proposed a 90 percent for 2019, only to be rebuffed as lawmakers from both parties jumped to its defense. They also spared nearly a dozen similar programs benefiting Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico, Puget Sound, San Francisco Bay and other iconic waters, which the president\'s budget had recommended killing or cutting to the bone.The programs\' survival illustrates yet again that even in a highly polarized Congress, partisanship often stops at the water\'s edge."There\'s an understanding that we\'re all connected from sea to shining sea," said Caitlin Sweeney, director of a public-private partnership called the San Francisco Estuary Project that rebuilds wildlife habitat and works on a variety of pollution issues.Trump\'s administration argues that such programs are "primarily local efforts" for which state and local governments should pay. Their supporters counter that federal funding is essential and often prompts matching contributions from other sources."You simply are not going to make the restorations, improvements and protections that are needed unless you have that federal investment," said Todd Ambs, director of the Healing Our Waters-Great Lakes Coalition, which represents more than 140 organizations in eight states, from New York to Minnesota.The Great Lakes initiative, which has funded more than 3,500 projects, is popular with voters who appreciate clean beaches, good fishing and other benefits, Ambs said."Every member of Congress from the region can point to a few projects in their district that have brought tangible improvements to the environment and, in most cases, the economy," he said. "That\'s not lost on any of them."Aside from the Great Lakes, those staying at their current levels include Chesapeake Bay, San Francisco Bay, Puget Sound, South Florida, Lake Pontchartrain in Louisiana and estuaries in southern New England."The Bay is making progress and our legislators know how important it is to keep doing what works, especially when it is grounded in science," said William C. Baker, president of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation. The bay\'s program will get $73 million.Programs benefiting the Gulf of Mexico, New York\'s Long Island Sound and Lake Champlain in New York and Vermont will get funding increases under the bill. The Gulf\'s total will jump from $8.5 million to $12.5 million."It\'s a pretty good signal when the Congress says, \'We\'ll see you one and raise you one,\'" said Steve Cochran, who deals with Gulf of Mexico protection for the Environmental Defense Fund.___
OSLO   Human activities are causing an alarming decline in the variety of plant and animal life on Earth and jeopardizing food, clean water and energy supplies, a U.N.-backed study of biodiversity said on Friday.Climate change will become a steadily bigger threat to biodiversity by 2050, adding to damage from pollution and forest clearance to make way for agriculture, according to more than 550 experts in a set of reports approved by 129 governments."Biodiversity, the essential variety of life-forms on earth, continues to decline in every region of the world," the authors wrote after talks in Colombia. "This alarming trend endangers the quality of life of people everywhere."Four regional reports covered the Americas, Asia and the Pacific, Africa, Europe and Central Asia - all areas of the planet except the poles and the high seas.For the Americas, the report estimated that the value of nature to people - such as crops, wood, water purification or tourism - was at least $24.3 trillion a year, equivalent to the region\'s gross domestic product from Alaska to Argentina.Almost two-thirds of those natural contributions were in decline in the Americas, it said.Robert Watson, chair of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), said  biodiversity was not only about saving rare butterflies, trees, birds or rhinos.While that was important, he told Reuters a key message was: "Please stop thinking of biodiversity just as an environmental issue. It\'s way more important than that".ELEPHANTS AND MOSSESAmong other economic estimates, the Africa report said the absorption of greenhouse gases by a hectare (2.5 acres) of forest in Central Africa was worth $14,000 a year.Unless governments take strong action to limit greenhouse gas emissions, "climate change may be the biggest threat to biodiversity" by mid-century, Watson said.He said U.S. delegates had not challenged findings about man-made climate change, although U.S. President Donald Trump doubts mainstream scientific opinion and plans to pull out of the 2015 Paris climate agreement.For pollution, eight of 10 rivers around the world with most plastic waste were in Asia. On current trends, overfishing meant there could be no exploitable fish stocks in the Asia-Pacific region by mid-century.Around the world, ever more animals and plants were under threat from human activities, ranging from elephants in Africa to rare mosses and snails in Europe, the study said."By 2100, climate change could ... result in the loss of more than half of African bird and mammal species," said Emma Archer of South Africa, the co-chair of the African assessment.Rising human populations in many developing nations would require new policies, both to protect nature and to meet U.N. goals of eradicating poverty and hunger by 2030.In Europe and Central Asia, wetlands have declined by half since 1970, threatening many species.Amid the gloom, there were some bright spots.Forest cover had risen by 22.9 percent in China and other nations in northeast Asia between 1990 and 2015. Parks and other protected areas were expanding in many regions, including the Americas and Asia-Pacific.And populations of animals such as the Iberian lynx, Amur tiger and far eastern leopard were coming back from the brink of extinction thanks to conservation.(Reporting by Alister Doyle; Editing by Andrew Roche)
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Heres what you need to know: If President Trump wanted a national security adviser who matched his blunt, confrontational approach to the world, he found him. Meet John Bolton.Mr. Trump dumped Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster on Thursday in favor of Mr. Bolton, who has called for military action against North Korea and has said the Iran nuclear deal is a massive strategic blunder. He doesnt like the U.N., either.The shake-up creates one of the most hawkish national security teams of any White House in years. Separately, John Dowd resigned on Thursday as Mr. Trumps lead lawyer for the special counsel investigation. The two men disagreed over the presidents desire to be questioned by investigators. Beijing announced today that it would impose tariffs on $3 billion worth of American-produced goods, hours after President Trump imposed tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese goods.The prospect of a trade war sent U.S. stocks  lower on Thursday, but they  rose slightly in early trading this morning. Heres a snapshot of global markets today. The Trump administrations stiff tariffs on steel and aluminum begin today, but it granted brief exemptions to some allies and said it might impose import quotas. The Senate passed a $1.3 trillion spending bill early this morning that would keep the federal government open through September. Funding was scheduled to expire tonight.The measure provides big increases to military and domestic programs and rebuffs the Trump administrations efforts to sharply scale back the scope of government. Heres a breakdown of whats in the deal. President Trump may veto the bill, he said on Twitter today. A gunman killed three people in southwestern France today in a burst of violence that included hijacking a car, shooting at police officers, and opening fire and taking a hostage in a supermarket  an attack that rattled nerves in a country that has been hit hard by terrorism in recent years.The assailant, who claimed to be acting on behalf of the Islamic State, was killed by the police in Trbes, about 50 miles southeast of Toulouse. The interior minister identified him as Redouane Lakdim, 26, known to the police as a petty criminal and drug dealer. More than 800 student-led demonstrations are planned this weekend to call for an end to gun violence. Heres a map of scheduled protests across the U.S. and around the world.Whether the young activists inspired by March for Our Lives will become a disruptive force depends in large part on whether they stay organized and register to vote. Separately, the 16-year-old girl who was shot at a school in Maryland on Tuesday will be removed from life support, her parents said. The much-awaited antitrust trial involving AT&Ts proposed merger with Time Warner began on Thursday with starkly different visions of a future media landscape. Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by its business customers. Its the first Wall Street bank to take a stance on gun control. Martin Shkreli went to prison for fraud, and so far Elizabeth Holmes of Theranos has not. Our business columnist asks if thats fair.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. We have answers to questions about preparing a green funeral. Movie-themed vacations are surprisingly easy to plan. Recipe of the day: End the week with the perfect snack, chips and creamy queso.Our journalists recommend these great pieces: After Alabama decided this week to become the third state to legalize execution by nitrogen gas, I pulled up this astonishing and comprehensive article, which lays out various execution methods that some states can use. [The Marshall Project]And I listened again to the inaugural episode of one of my favorite podcasts. The riveting episode Cruel and Unusual examines nitrogen gass antecedent, the lethal injection, and makes a case, of sorts, for the integrity of the firing squad. [Radiolabs More Perfect] Jan Hoffman, health and behavior reporter A group of freelance theater critics, all once affiliated with print publications, banded together to publish online reviews of Broadway and Off Broadway shows. [New York Stage Review] Michael Paulson, theater reporter The last days of the Las Vegas gunmanUsing surveillance footage, we pieced together the final week in the life of Stephen Paddock, who killed 58 people in October. He plays video poker, laughs with hotel employees and hauls bag after bag of weapons to his suite. The Biggest AppleNew York Citys population reached a record high of over 8.6 million last year, according to census data. Quiz time!Did you keep up with this weeks news? Test yourself. Top of the chartsTwo of this weeks best-seller lists have debuts at No. 1: Clive Cussler and Graham Browns thriller The Rising Sea in hardcover fiction, and Michael Isikoff and David Corns look at the 2016 presidential election, Russian Roulette, in hardcover nonfiction.And A Brief History of Time returns to our paperback nonfiction list in the top spot. Its author, Stephen Hawking, died last week. Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critics liked Isle of Dogs, directed by Wes Anderson, and Pacific Rim Uprising, starring John Boyega.We recommend 10 new books, and TV offerings based on your available viewing time.If youre in New York City, here are 14 pop, rock and jazz concerts to check out, 23 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids.And Frozen has arrived on Broadway. The stage musical adaptation of the animated blockbuster is beautiful, our theater critic writes, but a bit confusing. Best of late-night TVTrevor Noah addressed this weeks war of words between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden: Personally I have no idea who would win this fight. I mean, Biden seems scrappy, but if 70 years of McDonalds couldnt take Trump down, I dont know what can. Quotation of the dayPeople in the U.S. and China have for years said the wolf is coming, the wolf is coming, but the wolf hasnt come. This time, the wolf is coming. Shi Yinhong, a professor at Renmin University in Beijing, warning that  leaders have been slow to realize the gravity of a brewing trade battle. The Times, in other wordsHeres an image of todays front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Its a shortcut used the world over  and even beyond, having been uttered at least once during a space mission.On this day in 1839, The Boston Morning Post published O.K. for the first known time, using the abbreviation next to the words all correct. (Its not written okay, The Times stylebook says.)There have been many theories about its origin, but the most likely is that O.K. was an abbreviation for the deliberately misspelled orl korrect (all correct), and the expression gained prominence in the mid-19th century.Allen Walker Read, a longtime English professor at Columbia University, debunked some theories in the 1960s, including that the term had come from Andrew Jacksons poor spelling, from a Native American word or from an Army biscuit.Today, O.K. is an Americanism adopted by virtually every language, and one of the first words spoken on the moon, the Times obituary of Mr. Read noted in 2002.The professor didnt appreciate having O.K. overshadow the hundreds of other etymologies he divined, it continued. He also tracked early uses of Dixie, Podunk and the almighty dollar.In the 1920s, Mr. Read hitchhiked through western Iowa hunting down the word blizzard.A man called Lightnin Ellis had first used the word for a snowstorm in 1870, he learned. Within 10 years, it had spread throughout the Midwest.Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
TOKYO  For Japan, the hits just keep on coming.Only last week, Tokyo was scrambling to recover after being caught flat-footed by President Trumps abrupt acceptance of an invitation to meet Kim Jong-un personally to discuss North Koreas nuclear program.On Friday, officials in Japan awoke to the news that it was the largest American ally to be left off a list of countries temporarily exempted from stiff tariffs on steel and aluminum imports by the Trump administration.The omission of Japan, the largest foreign supplier to be so excluded, was especially pointed. Australia, Brazil, Mexico and even South Korea, which is engaged with the United States in tense renegotiations of a free-trade pact, appeared on the list.The move also seemed a personal snub of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has courted Mr. Trump through rounds of golf, frequent telephone calls and lavish steak meals.Its really kind of almost tragicomic, said Koichi Nakano, a political scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo and frequent critic of the Japanese leader. Abe was being really sycophantic in trying to please Trump, and at a certain point, quite recently, he was talked about as the closest friend that Trump has. And it all turns out that that wasnt good for anything when it comes to furthering the national interests of Japan.To be sure, Mr. Abe is not the first American ally to be so spurned. Theresa May of Britain, Justin Trudeau of Canada and Angela Merkel of Germany have all had turns at being Mr. Trumps slighted friend.Japan could yet win an exemption from the new tariffs. Mr. Trumps announcement offered a path for countries left off the initial list to discuss with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports of steel articles. This week, Japans trade minister, Hiroshige Seko, told reporters there was a high chance that some of its steel and aluminum products would be exempted.But for anyone who has been paying attention, there have been hints all along that in matters of trade, Tokyo should regard Mr. Trump as much frenemy as friend.During the presidential campaign, he seemed to harbor three-decades-old perceptions of Japan, chastising it for crushing the United States in trade, invoking the specter of the 1980s and the height of the trade wars between the two countries. After he was elected, he threatened to impose a big border tax on Toyota if it built a new auto plant in Mexico.In niggling comments during a visit to Tokyo last fall, Mr. Trump told Japanese executives to try building your cars in the United States instead of shipping them over, ignoring the fact that Japanese carmakers build nearly four million vehicles in plants in the United States annually, more than twice the number the industry ships from Japan.On Friday, Mr. Seko, the trade minister, said it was extremely regrettable Japan had not immediately been exempted from the steel and aluminum tariffs.Still, analysts said Japanese officials probably realized it was only a matter of time before Mr. Trump took action on trade.They knew that this was a president who had pretty well-established views when it came to how he thought about Japan and the economic relationship with the U.S., said Tobias Harris, a vice president and Japan analyst at Teneo Intelligence, a political risk consultancy based in New York.Whats more, tensions between Japan and the United States are hardly unique to Mr. Trumps administration.If you look back far enough, periods of friction amidst close security cooperation goes back to the early 1970s and is more the rule than the exception, Mr. Harris said. I just dont believe that official Japan convinced themselves that because of the rapport between the two leaders, that they were going to escape scrutiny.Analysts said Mr. Trump had left Japan off the exemption list as a negotiating tactic to try to force it into bilateral free-trade talks.He wants something like some concessions from Japan regarding the auto market or maybe agriculture, said Shujiro Urata, dean and professor in the Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies at Waseda University in Tokyo. So in order to get these concessions, this could be a very effective strategy.When announcing $60 billion in tariffs against China on Thursday, Mr. Trump directed a sugarcoated barb against Japan and Mr. Abe.Ill talk to Prime Minister Abe of Japan and others  great guy, friend of mine  and there will be a little smile on their face, Mr. Trump said. And the smile is, I cant believe weve been able to take advantage of the United States for so long. So those days are over.Analysts said that Mr. Trump was clearly playing to his domestic audience.He has to promote this to his supporters in the United States, said Kazuhiro Maeshima, professor of politics at Sophia University. In the history between Japan and the United States over the past 30 years, Japan has been seen as an archenemy in the trade wars, so the voters image of Japan is bad. The reality is that China dominates the trade deficit, but the reality and image are different.In any case, the tariffs are unlikely to hurt Japans economy that much. The countrys steel exports to the United States represent just 5 percent of its total steel exports, and it produces very little aluminum.The real serious problem for the world is Chinas excessive production, said Masahiko Hosokawa, a professor at Chubu University and a former director of the American division of Japans Trade Ministry.Unless the problem of Chinas excessive steel production is resolved, the products will only flood into Asian markets if the U.S. stops importing them, Mr. Hosokawa said. The products that are supposed to go to the U.S. will flood the Asian market and steel prices will continue to decline.Mr. Trumps actions feed concern in Asia about Chinese dominance. Because he is unpredictable and kind of capricious, Mr. Urata said, more countries will perceive the United States as a very difficult country to work with that we cannot trust and rely on, leaving a void that China will increasingly fill.In the immediate term, Japans hand is weakened by the fact that Mr. Abe is embroiled in a scandal involving allegations that he influenced a sweetheart land deal for a crony.That will make it more difficult for Mr. Abe to negotiate with Mr. Trump from a position of strength, or to persuade Japanese businesses to consider any trade concessions. Mr. Abes power to persuade businesses and to talk with the U.S. is much weaker than it was even two months ago, Mr. Maeshima said.Then again, Mr. Trump could reverse course at any moment.Under the tariff laws, the United States could exempt Japan tomorrow, or they could decide no, no, no, Europe and Canada, were actually going to apply this law to you, said Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. It gives tremendous discretion to the president to do whatever he wants.
KAMPALA, Uganda   In a sleek new high-rise in Uganda\'s capital, an enthusiastic lecturer described his financial success with the cryptocurrency bitcoin while his earnings were projected on a screen."What I have earned in one-and-a-half years from bitcoin is more than I earned in 10 years as a teacher," Richard M. Bagorogo told his audience. "I am living on bitcoin because getting a job in this country is not easy."Some tech-savvy Africans are embracing bitcoin, the most popular virtual currency, despite the warnings of a few governments, seeing the volatility in its value a better risk than the usual hustle amid the continent\'s high unemployment.Many bitcoin adoptees are professionals aiming to supplement their salaries, but others are jobless millennials hoping to make a living by trading the cryptocurrency, which isn\'t tied to any bank or government and, like cash, allows users to spend and receive money anonymously or mostly so.In Kampala, Uganda\'s capital, and elsewhere a small community turns up at events where stars like Bagorogo preach what they call "the gospel of bitcoin."On a recent morning Bagorogo explained how he once could not afford to enroll his children in the international school where he taught. Now, he said, his lifestyle has changed: a recent holiday in Dubai and more than enough money to help out his father.It didn\'t always go smoothly, as many in Africa have little idea what bitcoin is."When I tried to bring my cousins on board, they called my father in the village and said, \'Your son has gone mad,\'" Bagorogo recalled. "For me, I was fascinated by the mathematics behind blockchain technology. But the local man is interested in money, not the mathematics, so I normally sit with them and show them how I get and withdraw my money. Once they see how easy it is, they also want bitcoin."Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies rely on blockchain, or the public, distributed ledgers that track the coins\' ownership. The bitcoin ledger is powered by "miners," so-called because they throw computational power into the system to discover and verify cryptocurrency units, occasionally receiving  or "mining"  new bitcoins in return.Bagorogo encourages people to invest in one of over two dozen global mining pools. For many who can\'t afford to buy and hoard large amounts, the potential returns, including dividends, can seem promising.Such facilities, however, have faced doubts about whether they are genuine and some countries have warned of money laundering and the threat to government-backed currencies.In China, where a substantial amount of the world\'s supply of bitcoin originates, the government ordered a shutdown of all cryptocurrency mining operations in January. The crackdown, plus hacking attacks leading to the theft of hundreds of millions of dollars\' worth of bitcoin from Japanese transfer Coincheck, contributed to the volatility of the value of a single unit of bitcoin, which rose to $19,000 in December but has since fallen below $9,000.Uganda\'s central bank has warned that investing in bitcoin and other digital currencies "is taking a risk in the financial space where there is neither investor protection nor regulatory purview."Kenya and Nigeria have issued similar concerns, and last year Namibia officially banned the use of cryptocurrencies for commercial purposes. But other countries in Africa appear open to the possibilities. Last year Tunisia announced it would launch a digital currency based on blockchain technology and South Africa, Africa\'s most developed economy, is researching the technology\'s feasibility.Despite the risks, "it is not wise to dismiss cryptocurrencies at this stage," said Stephen Kaboyo, a Ugandan analyst who runs the Kampala-based financial services firm Alpha Capital Partners. But those who invest in "a hugely speculative asset" must first understand the risks, he warned.In Uganda, where per capita income was less than $700 in 2016, bitcoin enthusiasts are mostly unfazed by the volatility. At least one restaurant in Kampala now accepts bitcoin, with owner Jennifer Birungi saying she had to put it "on the menu" to get more comfortable with cryptocurrencies.Birungi is a registered user of the exchange platform BitPesa, which serves 6,000 customers in Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania and Nigeria. They can cash out their bitcoin in return for local currency, which can be sent directly to their mobile phones\' bitcoin wallets or wired to their bank accounts.Other enthusiasts cited the relative convenience of bitcoin in financial transfers."I used to want to buy medical equipment online but it was becoming hard. Transacting online is very expensive in Uganda with all the fees," said Moses Semulya, a doctor at a Kampala hospital. "Bitcoin is changing that, making things easier and faster."Semulya said he rues a missed opportunity to invest in bitcoin in 2016 when it was still relatively cheap. Now he holds nearly $800 worth of it in his digital wallet, an amount he hopes will swell as more people in Africa and elsewhere turn to the cryptocurrency.He concluded: "Right now I would rather invest in bitcoin and watch this space rather than buying a plot of land."
TOKYO   The Norwegian ski resort of Lillehammer, site of the popular 1994 Winter Olympics, could be in the running to host again.Gerhard Heiberg, who headed the 1994 Lillehammer Games, told The Associated Press the resort would like to bid for the 2026 Winter Olympics but said 2030 seems more likely.Lillehammer would be a strong favorite if it enters any race."We are talking about whether we should be in the race for 2026 or 2030. This will be decided in some days," Heiberg said.Bid cities have until March 31 to let the International Olympic Committee know of their interest. In October, the IOC will trim the field to serious contenders, and then pick the host next year.In addition to Lillehammer, at least four others appear to be considering 2026: Calgary, Canada; Stockholm, Sweden; Sapporo, Japan; and Sion, Switzerland. Bids could also come from Italy, Austria, and Turkey.The United States has expressed interest primarily in 2030 with Salt Lake City, Denver and Reno, Nevada, being mentioned.Last year, the IOC named back-to-back Summer Olympic hosts  Paris and Los Angeles  in one bidding process. The Switzerland-based body has faced a dwindling pool of candidate cities, many put off by rising costs and pressure to build new venues that quickly become white elephants.Juan Antonio Samaranch, the IOC vice president, told the AP on Friday that a double award is unlikely for the 2026 and 2030 Winter Games."There is no thought, no project of a double award for the Winter Games," Samaranch said. "We don\'t see any need for that. We are not planning to change the system of awarding the Olympic Games every four years. This was just a one-off."He then hedged, slightly. He said "extraordinary" circumstances could change that."But as of today we are planning to award 2026 alone," he added.Heiberg is well connected. He is a former IOC executive board member, and former chairman of the IOC marketing commission. He also remains an IOC honorary member."I understand that IOC members would like to go back to Lillehammer," Heiberg said. "But maybe it\'s too early for 2026."Heiberg said his preference was 2026, but he said politicians and the Norwegian Olympic Committee hadn\'t had enough time to study the costs and benefits.The Russian city of Sochi famously spent $51 billion to prepare the 2014 Winter Olympics, a price that has scared off future bidders  particularly in Europe and North America. In addition, the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro were mired in corruption and a left a trail of white elephant venues, and unpaid bills."We are a very democratic country and have to follow certain procedures here," Heiberg said.Six European cities pulled out of official or possible bids when the IOC sought candidates for the 2022 Winter Olympics. Bidders balked at costs, political unrest, or a lack of public support expressed in failed referendums.It was left with two proposals, both from authoritarian governments: Almaty, Kazakhstan, and Beijing, China. Beijing won in a close vote.Heiberg said many venues remain from 1994, and some were upgraded for the 2016 Winter Youth Olympics."There will not be very much investment here, that\'s the attractive part for Norway if we organize Lillehammer," Heiberg said.Skeptics point out that games in the last 50 years have regularly gone over budget, and that precise costs in many have been difficult to track.Without Lillehammer in the mix, Calgary and Stockholm are probably viewed as the two best bets for 2026. Calgary held the 1988 Winter Olympics, and Stockholm held the Summer Games in 1912.Calgary or Stockholm would allow the IOC to return the games to traditional winter sports countries after games in Sochi, Russia, and Pyeongchang, South Korea. Beijing in 2022 is another non-traditional winter sports venue.However, if Stockholm was picked for 2026 it could diminish the odds for Lillehammer in 2030."That\'s another discussion we have to go through," Heiberg said.Sapporo should also be attractive after hosting the successful 1972 Winter Olympics. However, going to Sapporo would put another Olympics in Asia following games in Pyeongchang, Tokyo and Beijing.Christophe Dubi, executive director of the Olympic Games, said the IOC is listening to all comers."Yes, we\'re talking mainly 2026," Dubi said, "but anyone that wants to speak to us and work with us on any future bid or future games  we\'re happily doing so."___His work can be found at: https://apnews.com/search/stephen%20wade
Today in HistoryToday is Friday, March 23, the 82nd day of 2018. There are 283 days left in the year.Today\'s Highlight in History:On March 23, 1775, Patrick Henry delivered an address to the Virginia Provincial Convention in which he is said to have declared, "Give me liberty, or give me death!"On this date:In 1792, Joseph Haydn\'s Symphony No. 94 in G Major (known as the "Surprise" symphony because of an unexpected crashing chord in the second movement) had its first public performance in London.In 1806, explorers Meriwether Lewis and William Clark, having reached the Pacific coast, began their journey back east.In 1914, the first installment of "The Perils of Pauline," the silent film serial starring Pearl White, premiered in the greater New York City area.In 1933, the German Reichstag adopted the Enabling Act, which effectively granted Adolf Hitler dictatorial powers.In 1942, the first Japanese-Americans evacuated by the U.S. Army during World War II arrived at the internment camp in Manzanar, California.In 1956, Pakistan became an Islamic republic.In 1965, America\'s first two-person space mission took place as Gemini 3 blasted off with astronauts Virgil I. "Gus" Grissom and John W. Young aboard for a nearly 5-hour flight.In 1968, UCLA defeated North Carolina, 78-55, to win college basketball\'s NCAA championship.In 1973, before sentencing a group of Watergate break-in defendants, Chief U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica read aloud a letter he\'d received from James W. McCord Jr. which said there was "political pressure" to "plead guilty and remain silent."In 1983, President Ronald Reagan first proposed developing technology to intercept incoming enemy missiles  an idea that came to be known as the Strategic Defense Initiative. Dr. Barney Clark, recipient of a Jarvik permanent artificial heart, died at the University of Utah Medical Center after 112 days with the device.In 1998, "Titanic" tied an Academy Awards record by winning 11 Oscars, including best picture, director (James Cameron) and song ("My Heart Will Go On").In 2003, during the Iraq War, a U.S. Army maintenance convoy was ambushed in Nasiriyah (nah-sih-REE\'-uh); 11 soldiers were killed, including Pfc. Lori Ann Piestewa (py-ES\'-tuh-wah); six were captured, including Pfc. Jessica Lynch, who was rescued on April 1, 2003.Ten years ago: A roadside bomb killed four U.S. soldiers in Baghdad, pushing the overall American death toll in the five-year war to at least 4,000. Vice President Dick Cheney visited the West Bank, where Palestinian leaders asked him to pressure Israel to halt settlement construction and voiced other complaints. The Seattle-based fishing trawler Alaska Ranger sank in the Bering Sea, killing five crew members; 42 others survived. Al Copeland, founder of the Popeyes Famous Fried Chicken chain, died near Munich, Germany, at age 64.Five years ago: President Barack Obama concluded a four-day visit to the Middle East as he marveled at the beauty of one of the region\'s most stunning sites, the fabled ancient city of Petra in Jordan. Pope Francis traveled from the Vatican to Castel Gandolfo south of Rome to have lunch with his predecessor, Benedict XVI. Boris Berezovsky, 67, a self-exiled and outspoken Russian tycoon who\'d had a bitter falling out with Russian President Vladimir Putin, was found dead at his home in Ascot, England.One year ago: Abandoning negotiations, President Donald Trump demanded a make-or-break vote on health care legislation in the House, threatening to leave "Obamacare" in place and move on to other issues if the next day\'s vote failed. (Trump and GOP leaders ended up pulling their bill when it became clear it would fail badly.) The Republican-led Senate confirmed President Donald Trump\'s pick to be U.S. ambassador to Israel, 52-46, ignoring objections from Democrats that David Friedman lacked the temperament for such an important diplomatic post.Today\'s Birthdays: Movie director Mark Rydell is 89. International Motorsports Hall of Famer Craig Breedlove is 81. Singer-producer Ric Ocasek is 69. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is 66. Singer Chaka Khan is 65. Actress Amanda Plummer is 61. Actress Catherine Keener is 59. Actress Hope Davis is 54. Actor Richard Grieco is 53. Country musician Kevin Griffin (Yankee Grey) is 53. Actress Marin Hinkle is 52. Rock singer-musician Damon Albarn (Blur) is 50. Actress-singer Melissa Errico is 48. Rock musician John Humphrey (The Nixons) is 48. Bandleader Reggie Watts (TV: "The Late Late Show With James Corden") is 46. Actor Randall Park is 44. Actress Michelle Monaghan is 42. Actress Keri Russell is 42. Actress Anastasia Griffith is 40. Gossip columnist-blogger Perez Hilton is 40. Actress Nicholle Tom is 40. Country singer Paul Martin (Marshall Dyllon) is 40. Country singer Brett Young is 37. Actor Nicolas Wright is 36.Thought for Today: "A man who fears suffering is already suffering from what he fears."  Michel de Montaigne (MEE\'-shel duh mohn-TEHN\'), French essayist (1533-1592).
John R. Bolton is hardly known for sugarcoating his views. He once derided the United Nations by citing its 38-story headquarters in New York. If it lost 10 stories, he said, it wouldnt make a bit of difference.As it happened, Mr. Bolton went on to serve as the United States ambassador to the United Nations, perhaps the most undiplomatic of diplomats. But if President Trump wanted a national security adviser who would match his blunt, hard-edge, confrontational approach to the world, then Mr. Bolton fits the bill.With his trademark bushy gray mustache and his take-no-prisoners style, Mr. Bolton positioned himself to the right even of the foreign policy veterans who emerged from President George W. Bushs administration, a hawk among hawks, a hard-liner who thrills conservatives and chills moderates and liberals. From his perch on Fox News, he has impressed Mr. Trump with a muscular vision of American power and a dark assessment of Americas adversaries.When he takes over as Mr. Trumps third national security adviser in 14 months, Mr. Bolton will almost surely encourage Mr. Trumps instincts against diplomatic agreements both consider weak and unwise. He shares the presidents derisive opinion of the Iran nuclear deal and will presumably prod him to scrap it when a May deadline arrives. He likewise takes a dim view of international agreements like the Paris climate change accord, from which Mr. Trump announced last year that he would withdraw the United States. He has called the two-state solution for Israel and the Palestinians dead.But Mr. Bolton is not always in step with a president who sometimes veers back and forth between threatening fire and fury and eagerly seeking talks with foreign leaders. Mr. Bolton argues the virtues of pre-emptive military action against North Korea and scorns diplomacy of the sort Mr. Trump has embarked on with Kim Jong-un. He promotes more punitive sanctions against Russia rather than the kind of hand-holding flattery of President Vladimir V. Putin that Mr. Trump practiced even this week. He supported the Iraq war, which Mr. Trump calls a catastrophic mistake.In an interview on Thursday evening on Fox, Mr. Bolton said he recognized that his role would be to play the honest broker bringing different views to the president, and that it would be up to Mr. Trump to make the decisions.But he made clear that he also planned to be Mr. Trumps enforcer. When the president makes a decision, he said, part of his job will be making sure the bureaucracies get the decision and implement it.Mr. Bolton criticized the frequent leaks out of Mr. Trumps national security team, saying that a president cannot conduct diplomacy if some munchkin in the White House is leaking information to the news media. Leaking of that sort is simply unacceptable, he said.Mr. Boltons appointment elicited mixed reviews. Selecting John Bolton as national security adviser is good news for Americas allies and bad news for Americas enemies, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. He has a firm understanding of the threats we face from North Korea, Iran and radical Islam.Critics, however, expressed concern that a bomb thrower in words could become a bomb thrower in deeds. Bolton played a key role in politicizing the intel that misled us into the Iraq War, Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, wrote on Twitter. We cannot let this extreme war hawk blunder us into another terrible conflict.Clifford Kupchan, the chairman of the Eurasia Group, a consultant firm, sent a note to clients warning that Mr. Boltons appointment increases risk across the board, adding that it makes U.S. foreign policy America First on Steroids.At one point, Mr. Bolton toyed with running for president himself, only to back off. Instead, he created an organization to support like-minded candidates. His super PAC was one of the earliest customers of Cambridge Analytica, which has found itself confronting a deepening crisis after reports last weekend that the firm had harvested the data from more than 50 million Facebook profiles in its bid to develop techniques for predicting the behavior of individual American voters.The firm was founded with a $15 million investment from Robert Mercer, the wealthy Republican donor who has backed both Mr. Boltons PAC and Mr. Trump. Cambridges so-called psychographic modeling techniques, which were built in part with the data harvested from Facebook, underpinned its work for the Trump campaign in 2016, setting off a furious debate about the merits of the firms methods. The same techniques were also the focus of its work for Mr. Boltons PAC.Using the psychographic models, the company designed advertisements from candidates supported by Mr. Boltons PAC, including the 2014 campaign of Thom Tillis, the Republican senator from North Carolina. One advertisement, a video that was posted on YouTube, was aimed at fearful and neurotic voters  it emphasized security and the idea that Mr. Tillis could keep the United States safe.Mr. Bolton also recorded a video used by a Russian gun rights group in 2013 to encourage Moscow to loosen gun laws, according to a report by NPR. The report said the video was part of an effort by Russian and American gun rights groups to collaborate in the years leading up to the 2016 election.A native of Baltimore, Mr. Bolton, 69, received undergraduate and law degrees from Yale University. In between stints in private practice, he took a series of increasingly important jobs in government, starting at the United States Agency for International Development under President Ronald Reagan and later as an assistant attorney general.After the 2000 election, Mr. Bolton joined the Republican legal team in Florida during the recount battle between Mr. Bush and Vice President Al Gore. After the Supreme Court halted the recount, resulting in Mr. Bushs victory, Dick Cheney, the new vice president, persuaded the incoming secretary of state, Colin L. Powell, to make Mr. Bolton an under secretary in charge of arms control. In that role, he helped pull the United States out of the Antiballistic Missile treaty but negotiated a separate treaty with Russia paring nuclear arsenals.When Condoleezza Rice succeeded Mr. Powell, she rebuffed pressure from Mr. Cheney to make Mr. Bolton her deputy. Instead, Mr. Bush nominated him for the United Nations post, but key Republicans opposed him, including a former assistant secretary of state who testified that Mr. Bolton was a kiss-up, kick-down sort of guy who abused underlings.After the Senate refused to confirm Mr. Bolton, Mr. Bush gave him a recess appointment instead  a decision he would come to regret. Mr. Bolton clashed regularly with Ms. Rice and, after leaving office, broke with Mr. Bush over what he saw as weak-kneed policies on North Korea and Iran.He titled his memoir Surrender Is Not an Option, and called the Foreign Service officers in the State Departments East Asian and Pacific Affairs Bureau the EAPeasers. He even went after Mr. Bush. Nothing can erase the ineffable sadness of an American presidency, like this one, in total intellectual collapse, he wrote in The Wall Street Journal.Mr. Bush bristled and, in a private meeting with a group of conservatives, said, Let me just say from the outset that I dont consider Bolton credible. Other former colleagues fought back more publicly. Christopher Hill, who negotiated with North Korea for Mr. Bush, dismissed Mr. Bolton as Phyllis Schlafly with a mustache.After Mr. Trumps election in 2016, Ms. Rice and other Bush administration veterans like former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Stephen J. Hadley, the former national security adviser, privately warned against an appointment for Mr. Bolton.Mr. Trump considered Mr. Bolton for several posts but ultimately backed away each time. Unlike some of them, national security adviser does not require Senate confirmation. In the interim, Mr. Bolton has repeatedly praised Mr. Trump on television and in his Wall Street Journal columns even when the two disagreed.He wrote on Twitter this month that sanctions on Mr. Putin and his inner circle needed to be tougher. If you want to punish a country for behavior you dont accept, you need punishing sanctions that are broad, not targeted, and they need to be enforced, he wrote.In a Journal column, he made the case for a pre-emptive military strike against North Korea. Given the gaps in U.S. intelligence about North Korea, we should not wait until the very last minute, he wrote. That would risk striking after the North has deliverable nuclear weapons, a much more dangerous situation. Other options, he told a reporter, would be persuading China to topple North Koreas government or reuniting the peninsula under South Korean rule, although he acknowledged neither was likely.A couple of weeks ago, he went on Fox to disdain South Koreas willingness to negotiate with North Korea. Theyre like putty in North Koreas hands, he said. As the great international relations theorist P. T. Barnum put it, theres a sucker born every minute. Two days later, Mr. Trump accepted an invitation to meet with North Koreas Mr. Kim.As he prepared to take on his new assignment, however, Mr. Bolton was careful to minimize any differences with Mr. Trump. Asked Thursday evening on Fox about the presidents decision to congratulate Mr. Putin on winning an election that most of the world considered a sham, Mr. Bolton said, I dont consider it a significant point one way or the other, adding, its a matter of being polite.
CAIRO  Days before Egypts presidential election, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisis beaming visage adorns billboards across Egypt. His rivals are in jail, the news media is in his pocket and his sole challenger  a politician so obscure many Egyptians would struggle to name him  hasnt bothered to campaign.With the Irish bookmaker Paddy Power putting Mr. Sisis odds of losing at 1 in 500, most Egypt watchers are already looking past the vote that starts Monday to his next challenge: whether he can change the Constitution to extend his rule beyond the current eight-year limit.The mystery, then, is why Mr. Sisi is acting like a man with something to lose.As the election loomed, the Egyptian leader sometimes acted in ways that looked oddly jittery. He fired his army chief in October and a powerful spy chief in January. In speeches, he struck a choleric, sometimes threatening tone, railing against unspecified enemies. In a fierce media crackdown in the final month of campaigning, the government expelled a British reporter without explanation and even imprisoned a pro-Sisi TV host deemed to have stepped out line.Its very confusing, said Mohamed Anwar el-Sadat, a presidential contender who quit the race in January out of concern for the safety of his campaign workers. Sisi has everything in hand. So why the fear?The reason, experts and diplomats in Cairo say, lies within the precincts of true power in Egypt  the military and security agencies that form the bedrock of Mr. Sisis authority. While the vote is expected to be a stage-managed confirmation, along the lines of those in China and Russia last weekend, it has exposed a rumble of discontent inside the security establishment that appeared to rattle Mr. Sisi.Tensions spiked in the early stages of the election when two former generals stepped forward to challenge him. He quickly dispatched their bids  one man is in jail while the second, after a month in detention, disavowed his ambitions.Few analysts gave either candidate much chance of beating Mr. Sisi, who retains broad support for his tough policies against Islamist militancy. But his unsparing reaction to their bids stoked speculation that they enjoyed support from a corner of the security establishment, a smidgen of dissent that Mr. Sisi found intolerable.The security apparatus, which removed Mr. Sisis predecessor in 2013, poses the only real challenge to his power, said Robert Springborg, an Egypt scholar at Kings College. The election puts that into relief, he said. It provides the shadows on the wall of the struggle thats going on underneath.Egypts modern leaders are often likened to pharaohs  all-powerful leaders of a disciplined state. Mr. Sisi has encouraged that image, whether standing imperiously at the prow of a boat plowing through the Suez Canal, or posing against the backdrop of the pyramids.But a more apt historical analogy, some say, lies with the Mamluks, a fractious military caste that ruled Egypt in the Middle Ages. For almost three centuries, Mamluk sultans ruled from Cairos citadel, but their supremacy rested on a cabal of restless subordinates who jockeyed for supremacy.Under Mr. Sisi, a tight circle of generals and security chiefs wield vast economic and political power, overseeing secretive business and media empires while cracking down on any hint of opposition. Deciphering the inner workings of this circle is notoriously difficult, and the subject of a sort of Kremlinology among Western officials. But this years election seemed to crack open the lid on hidden strains.That the two retired generals would run for office was no surprise. Ahmed Shafik, a former air force commander who served briefly as prime minister in 2011, ran for president in 2012. Sami Anan, who led Egypts army from 2005 to 2012, backed out of the 2014 presidential election after he was attacked in pro-state news media.But this time they offered rare public criticism of Mr. Sisi and proposed to loosen his harsh rule.Mr. Shafik, in his video message to launch his campaign, said: A true democracy and basic human rights are not a given. Mr. Anan tendered an olive branch to the young revolutionaries who helped oust President Hosni Mubarak in 2011, and who have been hounded by Mr. Sisi.Mr. Anan was charged with breaching military rules and thrown in jail, where aides say he has been interrogated by military officers in balaclavas. Mr. Shafik was detained at a luxury hotel for a month before he publicly withdrew his candidacy.A third military-linked candidate, an American-educated officer named Col. Ahmed Konsowa, was court-martialed in December and sentenced to six years imprisonment.Their attempted candidacies said to the Egyptian public that Sisi is doing a bad job and Egypt needs new leadership, said Amy Hawthorne, an Egypt expert at the Project on Middle East Democracy. Thats very provocative.Mr. Sisi rejected the notion that he pushed the other candidates out of the race.It is not my fault, he said in a television interview on Tuesday. I swear to God I wished there would have been more candidates for people to choose who they want. But they were not ready yet. There is no shame in this.With his rivals derailed, Mr. Sisi sought to shore up his own military credentials. He announced a sweeping  military drive against Islamic State militants in Sinai and last month donned his old army uniform to open a new military command center.In improvised remarks in January, he warned that Egypts security would be compromised over the dead body of the military  a statement that appeared to be aimed as much at internal critics as at the militants.And he increased pressure on the news media. A journalist who interviewed Mr. Anans running mate was jailed. Last month, the government expelled Bel Trew, a reporter with The Times of London, despite a private protest from the British foreign secretary, Boris Johnson. The news organization says it has not received an explanation.To some analysts, Mr. Sisi is merely consolidating his power as he heads into a second four-year term. Despite the repression, many Egyptians still support him as an antidote to the turmoil they suffered after the Arab Spring.The economy is improving as a result of tough economic reforms, many prescribed by the International Monetary Fund, even if they have inflicted painful inflation on tens of millions of poor Egyptians.Mr. Sisi also enjoys the support of powerful foreign allies like President Donald J. Trump and the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman, who paid Mr. Sisi a three-day visit this month. He has drawn closer to Egypts old enemy, Israel, through discreet cooperation on counterterrorist operations in Sinai.But Mr. Sisi has also made many contentious decisions. The militarys prominent role in running the economy is unpopular with businessmen and some military officers, a senior western diplomat in Cairo said.The decision to hand two Red Sea islands, Tiran and Sanafir, to Saudi Arabia in 2016 was opposed by several senior defense officials, Ms. Hawthorne said, citing Egyptian media reports.I think its a vulnerability for Sisi, she said. He can try to move past it but people dont forget.Although Mr. Sisi has faced talk of dissent before  in 2015 a military court reportedly convicted 26 officers on charges of plotting to overthrow him  experts say he is believed to enjoy staunch support among the military high command.But they also note that he is tightening his inner circle, relying more heavily on his family. One son, Mahmoud, is a senior figure in the General Intelligence Service and has been an interlocutor in meetings with American officials in Washington. Another son works in an influential anti-corruption body.Whatever Mr. Sisis popularity may be, this election will not be a reliable indicator. Egypts weak, fractured opposition has already written it off. The Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group that briefly enjoyed power until the military takeover that brought Mr. Sisi to power in 2013, is outlawed.Mr. Sisis only challenger, Moussa Moustapha Moussa, held just two public events, one of which was attended by more journalists than supporters. Im no puppet, he insisted to The Guardian this week.On Wednesday, Mr. Sisi called President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to congratulate him on his election victory last weekend, having also congratulated Chinas Xi Jinping on his unanimous election in the National Peoples Congress.Both leaders have found way to circumvent term limits, and there are signs that Mr. Sisi has similar ambitions.Last August, a member of Parliament loyal to Mr. Sisi proposed a constitutional amendment to extend term limits. In November, Mr. Sisi insisted he would not seek any changes.Mr. Sadat, the opposition politician and nephew of his namesake, Egypts former president, said a broad coalition of opposition groups had started to hunt for candidate to contest the 2022 election  when, if the proposed constitutional changes take place, they expect to face Mr. Sisi again.Sisi hates politics and thats what we are seeing in this election, he said. What worries me is what will come next. Are we going to see a Chinese model? That is the issue.
As a teenager growing up in Miami, Rahysa Vargas was always more concerned with serving her community than looking for a boyfriend.She was born in Bogot, Colombia, and, eager to fulfill the dreams of her parents to improve their lives in the United States, was interested in local politics and government. She even became the vice president of her high school class.During Christmas holiday seasons, Ms. Vargas would accompany her father, an entrepreneur, to a homeless shelter in Homestead, Fla., where they would distribute toys to children.I didnt have a lot of boyfriends because my heart was on activities to help others, said Ms. Vargas, 31, who graduated from the University of Miami and received a law degree from the Shepard Broad College of Law at Nova Southeastern University in Davie. She is the founder and president of Ms. Esquire, a professional organization and networking group for female lawyers.In September 2006, she was introduced to Christopher Cheng, a fellow University of Miami undergraduate, by mutual friends at a football game against Florida State. She was not intrigued. His face was painted the Miami school colors of orange and green that got streaked in the rain. We briefly spoke, but since I dont drink, he found me boring, Ms. Vargas said. His attention was on my friend who did drink.I didnt think Rahysa was my type, said Mr. Cheng, 33, who was born in Plantation and raised in South Florida. I never had a college girlfriend. I was a free spirit who liked the chase. I wasnt mentally mature enough to engage Rahysa.Three months later, they reconnected at Tavern in the Grove, a local bar where Ms. Vargas, dressed in a silk dress and heels, was waiting for a friend. Mr. Cheng asked if she wanted a cocktail.She looked classy but said no to drink offers and was short with me, said Mr. Cheng, who graduated in 2007 with a bachelors degree in public relations and sociology and has worked in television broadcasting and hospital marketing. I was drunk and challenged, so I apologized for my rude behavior and asked if she was too upper class for me to make her dinner sometime.Since she loved food and found him attractive without paint on his face, Ms. Vargas agreed. After more than a week of conversation leading up to their Dec. 15 date, she discovered that he was also smart, cultured and funny.They dined at the Cheesecake Factory because Mr. Cheng had moved in with his mother for winter break. While waiting 90 minutes for a table, they talked about politics, religion, sociology and family. We made fun of each other, laughed and couldnt stop speaking, she said.Later that night, Ms. Vargas suggested they see The Pursuit of Happyness, starring Will Smith, because she felt the struggles of the actors character were similar to those of her father when he moved the family to the United States when she was an infant.I liked Rahysas brain, personality, ambition and drive, Mr. Cheng said. She was a firecracker who let me be candid without imposing judgment.Eager to see how she would fit in with his family and friends, Mr. Cheng asked Ms. Vargas to help celebrate his birthday the following night. I normally chased down the wrong kind of girls, but nothing worked because they wanted bad boys, and I was too nice, he said. But this felt different. They started dating four or five nights a week, enjoying Mr. Chengs cooking, dining in restaurants and reading together. I thought he was genuine, said Ms. Vargas, who later showed her loyalty during another Miami-Florida State football game when Mr. Cheng was beaten by opposition fans in the stands.They ganged up on Chris and smashed his face in, said Mr. Chengs mother, Helene Woodward. Little selfless Rahysa jumped on top of him to save his life.Frank Guzman, a friend and groomsman, remembered how Rahysa dragged his bloody, limp body into the aisle until the police arrived, and he was taken to the hospital. His injuries included a broken nose, a laceration from lip to chin and contusions on his body and skull.After Ms. Vargas graduated in May 2009 with a degree in political science, the couple rented an apartment together, but struggled with cultural clashes and communication.Mr. Cheng liked to show his affection by giving Ms. Vargas gifts, or regaling her with an appropriate song. He also nurtured her with food and medicine when she was sick. But he didnt plan birthdays, anniversaries or Valentines Day. I always write a letter on birthdays, she said, and holidays are important so this became an issue.Ms. Vargas also got jealous when Mr. Cheng, then a busy associate producer at WSVN-TV in Miami, hung out with a close buddy. She preferred that he spend quality time with her by going to dinner and talking. She also liked having him accompany her to places like the grocery store. Mr. Cheng wanted alone time to chill and play his guitar.I have a big social personality and need to be away from people to recharge because I get anxious and depressed, Mr. Cheng said. Rahysa is an adventurer and always wanted to go places.During one Christmas season when she asked him to help distribute toys at a homeless shelter, he declined, thinking her social interests were honorable but not as important as his television work. I was super-selfish, and everything was about me, he said.They are both strong personalities, leaders, opinionated and outspoken, said her brother, Steven Vargas. Her mother, Constanza Gomez, agreed: They are highly dramatic with similar personalities. Each can be sitting in a different room thinking about the same things.Ms. Vargas became unhappy after Mr. Cheng was overly argumentative. I didnt mean it but I was hurting, he said.The couple split in mid-2010, partly because Ms. Vargas was eager to begin law school and Mr. Cheng was focused on becoming a broadcast reporter. Although Chris was the love of my life, and I worried he would meet someone else, I had to let him go, she said.Still, while dating others, they kept in touch by sharing the grief of his uncles death, divorcing parents, illness and other mercurial moments. In 2013, when Mr. Cheng returned to Miami for a job in marketing after a year in news at a Texas television station, they repeatedly ran into each other.He said he was battling depression and anxiety, and wasnt fulfilled by his career. Even though I wanted to marry Rahysa and have a family, Mr. Cheng said, she would soon be practicing law and knew I was a storm coming back and couldnt promise her a stable life.The next two years involved soul-searching for Mr. Cheng. He sought professional help in hopes of finding stability so he could have one more shot with the love of his life. She was my moral compass, a together person who liked me more than I liked myself, he said. She made me a better human being.In 2015, when Mr. Cheng randomly spotted Ms. Vargass mother in a local lounge and told her that he was desperately in love, she encouraged him to try again. After many conversations, the couple reunited and slowly learned to communicate more and fight less. We began to accept each others flaws and compromise, Ms. Vargas said.Within a year, they bought a house together in Miami, and agreed to take a vacation in Thailand and China. On Nov. 26, 2016, during a layover in Paris that Ms. Vargas planned to relieve Mr. Chengs anxiety about long flights, he escorted her to the top of the Eiffel Tower, dropped to one knee and surprised her with a proposal.Finally! she blurted out, followed by Yes!Wedding plans were temporarily disrupted last September when Hurricane Irma destroyed their new home, flooding it with 2 feet of sewage and seawater and forcing them to move five times in four months while commissioning a total rebuild.They leaned on each other constantly. When one was weak, the other was strong. Mr. Cheng had left his marketing job earlier that year, then Ms. Vargas quit hers to concentrate on Ms. Esquire.We spoke life into each other, and our church worship helped us endure this stressful time with unusual peace and calm, Mr. Cheng said.On March 3, the couple married under the cupola of the huge dome at the Beaux-Arts-designed City Hall in San Francisco, the city they visited shortly after reuniting. Before 88 guests, Chris Lopez, a mutual friend who founded Vous, their nondenominational Christian church in Miami, led a religious ceremony as David Gomes, a Universal Life minister, officiated.The couple wrote their own vows about how much they have overcome in 12 years, with Mr. Cheng declaring, I cant believe we are finally, finally here. I know! Its my fault, my bad.Ms. Vargas thanked Mr. Cheng for accepting that Im the worst cook in the universe and for taking over the cooking in our house.About an hour later, with dynamic dance music in the background, the newly married couple made a grand entrance to the reception, which was also held at City Hall. As they approached the bottom of the staircase, Mr. Cheng, poking fun at his own flair for drama, fell and acted as if he had hurt his leg. He was given a chair to sit in, and was handed a microphone and acoustic guitar. He then serenaded his surprised bride with Perfect by Ed Sheeran.Ms. Vargas beamed, wept and sang along. At the end, she wiped the grooms tears before joining him for their first dance to Just the Way You Are by Billy Joel.Chris and Rahysa walk the same path, said the best man, Jonathan Shupert. They hold hands when they disagree and are a shining example of how you can be an imperfect couple yet still love and grow.

