China's Defence Ministry said on Friday the United States had seriously harmed the country's sovereignty and security after a U.S. Navy destroyer carried out a "freedom of navigation" operation in the disputed South China Sea.
China's navy will carry out combat drills in the South China Sea, the military's official newspaper said on Friday, describing the move as part of regular annual exercises.
A U.S. Navy destroyer carried out a "freedom of navigation" operation on Friday, coming within 12 nautical miles of an artificial island built by China in the South China Sea, U.S. officials told Reuters. 
Vietnam has halted an oil drilling project in the "Red Emperor" block off its southeastern coast licensed to Spanish energy firm Repsol following pressure from China, three sources with direct knowledge of the situation told Reuters on Friday.
John Bolton, the next national security adviser, is likely to reinforce Mr. Trump’s instincts to dump the Iran nuclear deal and to confront North Korea, raising fears of instability.
The United States will deploy a record number of Marines to train in Australia, the Australian defense minister said on Friday, as Washington seeks to counter what it describes as Chinese aggression in the region.
The United States will deploy a record number of Marines to train in Australia, the Australian defense minister said on Friday, as Washington seeks to counter what it describes as Chinese aggression in the region.
The U.S. military on Friday launched vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) F-35Bs from the deck of the USS Wasp amphibious carrier in the waters around Okinawa in its first show of stealth aircraft force at sea.
Once rejected by North Korea as "human scum," U.S. President Donald Trump's latest pick for national security adviser has called for regime change in North Korea, prompting worries in Asia ahead of a historic summit between Washington and Pyongyan...
Voices of concern emerged in South Korea and elsewhere in Asia on Friday after U.S. President Donald Trump shook up his foreign policy team again, prompting worries over Trump's pending summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
U.S. government scientists say ice covering the Arctic ocean reached its second lowest extent on record this winter.
China urged the United States on Friday to "pull back from the brink" as President Donald Trump's plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion in Chinese goods moved the world's two largest economies closer to a trade war. 
Following are five big themes likely to dominate thinking of investors and traders in the coming week and the Reuters stories related to them.
U.S. President Donald Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs met a barrage of criticism at a World Trade Organization meeting on Friday, as the European Union, Japan, Australia and others joined a debate started by China and Russia. 
China urged the United States on Friday to "pull back from the brink" as President Donald Trump's plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion (42.5 billion pounds) in Chinese goods moved the world's two largest economies closer to a trade war. 
China responded to Trump’s action by announcing tariffs on $3 billion worth of U.S. products, a relatively modest amount. But it has more weapons in its arsenal.
Vietnam and South Korea agreed on Friday to seek to boost their bilateral trade to $100 billion (70.83 billion pounds) by 2020, or 50 percent more than last year's total. 
Fears of a trade war are roiling financial markets Friday, with stocks under pressure around the world and the dollar in retreat.
The maximum extent of Arctic sea ice cover this winter was the second-lowest since satellite record-keeping began, researchers said Friday.
Friday’s session ended the S.&P. 500’s worst week in two years, and followed slumping sessions in global markets in Europe and Asia.
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Friday:
Germany's economy minister on Friday welcomed U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to temporarily exclude European Union countries from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum and called for more international cooperation on trade.
China's threat of steep tariffs on American pork imports will put further pressure on an industry already facing weaker demand from the world's top buyer of the meat. 
Rio Tinto expects the global iron ore market to stay balanced through 2019 despite a likely moderation in steel demand growth in China, the world's biggest steel consumer, a senior executive said on Friday.
He’s right to accuse it of stealing American technology, but has no idea how to fix the problem.
In advanced industries like chip development, the rivals are vying for dominance in a fight that is as much about national security as economic might.
Vietnam and South Korean aim to substantially increase their bilateral trade during President Moon Jae-in's three-day visit to the Southeast Asian country.
China's hunger for American lobsters is helping keep prices high to U.S. consumers, but a tariff on the seafood does not appear imminent.
The historian Shen Zhihua says the Communist Party should relax. “I would say: ‘Those mistakes were made in the past, not now, and we need to learn from our mistakes.’”
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said on Friday that he would closely watch the United States' move to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.
Uruguay forward Luis Suarez scored his 50th goal for his country when he won and converted a penalty in a 2-0 friendly win over the Czech Republic on Friday.
Samsung Electronics Co Ltd shareholders approved a stock split on Friday making it easier for retail shareholders to hold shares in the tech giant, at an annual meeting also dogged by concerns about global trade tensions. 
Volunteers in western Australia have managed to rescue only five of 150 short-finned pilot whales that became stranded on a beach.
Stocks around the world plunged Friday as investors feared that a trade conflict between the U.S. and China, the biggest economies in the world, would escalate. A second day of big losses pushed U.S. stocks to their worst week in two years.
European Union leaders vented their frustration Friday at U.S. President Donald Trump's trade tactics, saying he is putting undue pressure on key allies by allowing barely a month of time to negotiate an exemption from punitive tariffs on steel an...
U.S. President Donald Trump has temporarily excluded six  countries, including Canada and Mexico, and European Union states from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminum meant to come into effect on Friday.
Just last month nervy investors were glued to their screens for the release of inflation data from the world's advanced economies after fears of a faster than anticipated return of price growth rocked global stock and bond markets.
As U.S. President Donald Trump dealt a blow to China with plans to slap tariffs on $60 billion of trade, he quietly delivered a slap in the face to one of Washington's closest allies, Japan, which got no exemption from earlier announced duties. 
The number of foreign children adopted by U.S. parents dropped more than 12 percent last year, accelerating a decline that's now continued for 13 years, according to new State Department figures.
The two-pronged trade offensive aimed at China, and China’s initial response, may be only the start of a complex, escalating economic battle.
The European Union's trade chief is unsure what Washington wants in return for a permanent EU exemption from steel tariffs but she warned on Friday that she would resist pressure to cut EU duties on U.S. cars.
President Donald Trump has gotten nowhere in his push to kill federal support for cleaning up some of the nation's most prized waterways, as Congress voted to keep funding at current levels &#8212; and in some cases, boost it.
Human activities are causing an alarming decline in the variety of plant and animal life on Earth and jeopardizing food, clean water and energy supplies, a U.N.-backed study of biodiversity said on Friday.
Here’s what you need to know to start your day.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s wooing of President Trump seemed to get Japan little as the United States announced actions on trade.
In a sleek new high-rise in Uganda's capital, an enthusiastic lecturer described his financial success with the cryptocurrency bitcoin while his earnings were projected on a screen.
The Norwegian ski resort of Lillehammer, site of the popular 1994 Winter Olympics, could be in the running to host again.
Today in History
If President Trump wanted a national security adviser who would match his confrontational approach to the world, then Mr. Bolton fits the bill.
The campaign has exposed tensions in Egypt’s security establishment that appear to have rattled Mr. Sisi, who has ratcheted up repression.
Rahysa Vargas and Christopher Cheng managed to work through their different personalities and cultural backgrounds.
Many industrial feedlots see routine use of antibiotics as essential. Some cattlemen disagree, calling them “performance enhancing drugs.”
