BEIJING   China\'s air force has held another round of drills in the disputed South China Sea and the Western Pacific after passing though Japan\'s southern islands, the air force said on Sunday, calling such exercises the best preparation for war.China is in the midst of an ambitious military modernization program overseen by President Xi Jinping with a heavy focus on its air force and navy, from building stealth fighters to adding aircraft carriers.China insists it has no hostile intent, but its sabre-rattling in the busy South China Sea waterway, and around Taiwan, has touched a nerve in the region and in Washington.In a statement, the air force said H-6K bombers and Su-30 and Su-35 fighters, among other aircraft, carried out combat patrols over the South China Sea and exercises in the Western Pacific after passing over the Miyako Strait, which lies between two southern Japanese islands.It did not say when the exercises took place nor specify the parts of the South China Sea or the Western Pacific.In a "freedom of navigation" operation on Friday, a U.S. Navy destroyer came within 12 nautical miles of an artificial island China has built in the South China Sea, provoking condemnation from China, which claims most of the strategic waterway.Sending Su-35 fighters over the South China Sea aims to help increase the air force\'s ability to fight far out at sea, the air force said in the statement on its microblog.Flying across the Miyako Strait, which also sits to the northeast of the self-ruled island of Taiwan that China claims as its own, accorded with international law and practice, it added."Air Force exercises are rehearsals for future wars and are the most direct preparation for combat," it said.The more exercises China practices far from its shores the better it will be positioned as "an important force for managing and controlling crises, containing war and winning battles", it added.(Reporting by Lusha Zhang and Ben Blanchard; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
BEIJING   China\'s air force has held another round of drills in the disputed South China Sea and the Western Pacific after passing though Japan\'s southern islands, the air force said on Sunday, calling such exercises the best preparation for war.China is in the midst of an ambitious military modernization program overseen by President Xi Jinping with a heavy focus on its air force and navy, from building stealth fighters to adding aircraft carriers.China insists it has no hostile intent, but its sabre-rattling in the busy South China Sea waterway, and around Taiwan, has touched a nerve in the region and in Washington.In a statement, the air force said H-6K bombers and Su-30 and Su-35 fighters, among other aircraft, carried out combat patrols over the South China Sea and exercises in the Western Pacific after passing over the Miyako Strait, which lies between two southern Japanese islands.It did not say when the exercises took place nor specify the parts of the South China Sea or the Western Pacific.In a "freedom of navigation" operation on Friday, a U.S. Navy destroyer came within 12 nautical miles of an artificial island China has built in the South China Sea, provoking condemnation from China, which claims most of the strategic waterway.Sending Su-35 fighters over the South China Sea aims to help increase the air force\'s ability to fight far out at sea, the air force said in the statement on its microblog.Flying across the Miyako Strait, which also sits to the northeast of the self-ruled island of Taiwan that China claims as its own, accorded with international law and practice, it added."Air Force exercises are rehearsals for future wars and are the most direct preparation for combat," it said.The more exercises China practices far from its shores the better it will be positioned as "an important force for managing and controlling crises, containing war and winning battles", it added.(Reporting by Lusha Zhang and Ben Blanchard; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
LONDON   Following are five big themes likely to dominate thinking of investors and traders in the coming week and the Reuters stories related to them.1/WAR CRIESIf fears of a trade war between the world\'s two largest economies, the United States and China, weren\'t enough to set the nerves racing, the two sides are butting against each other in the South China Sea again and Donald Trump has just tossed in the threat of another U.S. government shutdown.Next week will probably see a drama involving all three and possibly other elements too that we don\'t even know about yet.However, some experienced analysts suggest that the rout in stocks may not point to panic over a full-scale trade war.(GRAPHIC: Global stocks sell-off - https://reut.rs/2pBpWF1)2/HUNG, DRAWN AND QUARTEREDThe first quarter draws to a close, and what a quarter it has been. Investors have had a lot thrown at them - from the biggest ever rise in stock market volatility to rapidly escalating tensions over global trade, deepening tumult in the White House and tech sector wobbles.The market "melt-up" they all talked about in January has melted away, the Dow and S&P are down for the year, and the outlook for Q2 is a great deal more uncertain. Global trade tensions are now infecting investor sentiment and risk appetite, there are signs that growth has peaked (particularly in Europe), rising dollar interbank rates show no sign of reversing, and the global liquidity pool will shrink this year.Will the bears continue to gain the upper hand in Q2, or will the bulls charge again?(GRAPHIC: Q1 returns - winners & losers - http://reut.rs/2pAC6xX)3/GROWING TO PLANThe final U.S. government read on fourth quarter GDP on Wednesday will come hot on the heels of the Federal Reserve\'s first interest rate hike of the year.In theory it should be reassuring. The United States is a fairly closed economy, and in the fourth quarter Donald Trump was dishing out tax cuts, not threatening trade wars.The U.S. Commerce Department also said on Friday that new orders for key U.S.-made capital goods rebounded more than expected last month and shipments of core capital goods saw the biggest advance since December 2016.Other realtime data, though, is not so encouraging. An Atlanta Federal Reserve model which updates weekly is now forecasting Q1 GDP increasing at an annualized rate of 1.8 percent. At the start of March it was churning out numbers around 3.5 percent.(GRAPHIC: U.S. GDP - https://reut.rs/2pz3u00)4/SELL EUROPE?High expectations for European stocks in 2018 have not been met. Euro zone and UK business confidence data due out next week will either inflame or soothe concerns that the region\'s economic momentum may be starting to wane.Morgan Stanley equity strategists say Europe is now seeing record outflows versus the United States, and even the popularity of French President Emmanual Macron - elected last year with a strong mandate to reform rigid labor markets - has now hit an all-time low in the polls.The French CAC-40 share index is now down 5 percent from when Macron won power last May, though that is still better than the near 7 percent the pan-European Stoxx 600 has lost.(GRAPHIC: Economic surprises: euro zone vs U.S. - http://reut.rs/2pyuBaT)5/UNFRIENDEDThe Facebook shock has been a hugely significant moment in this long-running bull market. Tech and internet stocks  such as the fabled FAANGs and BATs  have dominated and driven the equity rally of the past 2-3 years  mainly because the digital revolution underlying the boom in those companies was seen as largely impervious to shifting political winds or even ebbs and flows in the economic cycle.In the long run that may still be true. But Facebooks travails and questions over the use of Big Data more generally - or at least the advertising model underlying many of these companies - has cast some doubt over whether that progress is as linear as market pricing suggests.Next week may well be all about the growls coming from governments and their regulators on how far they will go to rein in the power of social networks. Mark Zuckerberg already has a long list of what are not exactly \'friend\' requests to testify in front of various countries\' lawmakers.(GRAPHIC: Unfriended - http://reut.rs/2psCzTp)(Writing by Marc Jones, additional reporting by Jamie McGeever, Danilo Masoni, Kit Rees and Alden Bentley; Editing by Gareth Jones)
WASHINGTON   U.S. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes said his committee will investigate China\'s efforts to gain military and economic power in Africa.The California Republican told Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo" that China\'s investment in African countries would allow Beijing to strengthen its grip over world trade.The Trump administration has stepped up actions to punish China over what he says is theft of U.S. intellectual property, moving last week to impose tariffs on $60 billion worth of Chinese imported good. China has denied engaging in unfair trade practices and threatened to retaliate with its own tariffs on U.S. companies. [nL3N1R604T]Nunes cited China\'s opening last summer of a military base in Djibouti, in the Horn of Africa and at the entrance of Red Sea, as an example of how Beijing is jockeying to assert power of trade."We believe they are looking at investing in ports and infrastructure around the world, not just for military capabilities but also to control those governments," Nunes said.Political influence in a country at the entrance of the Red Sea, a major artery for global shipping, gives Beijing great power over world trade, Nunes said. "They can effectively cut off world trade if they want to," he said.Investing in infrastructure in Africa also allowed Beijing to pressure those nations on United Nations votes. "The Chinese loan you billions of dollars to build a railway or port. What countries in Africa have found out is that comes with a price," Nunes said.(Reporting by Joel Schectman; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)

(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The gun-control movement goes global, the North Korean defectors who didnt make it, and the fight over the Bight. Heres what you need to know:   Welcome to the revolution.That was a survivor of the recent Florida school massacre addressing the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent at the March for Our Lives against gun violence in Washington on Saturday.Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets around the world for sister marches in support of gun control, including in Sydney, above, Tokyo, Mumbai, Berlin, Paris and London.You can hear some of the speeches in this video, and heres a photo gallery. And yes, in the U.S., there were counterprotesters calling for more guns._____  President Trump returns from his Florida resort to a White House he left in turmoil last week, after his head-spinning decisions on national security, trade and the domestic budget. (Catch up here.) His own aides are nervous about what comes next.His new, hard-line choices for key posts  including John Bolton, above, as national security adviser and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state  have raised the threat of military confrontation if foreign adversaries do not meet U.S. demands.Meanwhile, women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump are speaking out. Last week, it was a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal. In a few hours (7 p.m. Eastern, 10 a.m. Sydney), the adult film actress Stormy Daniels is scheduled to appear on CBSs 60 Minutes (heres our profile of her)._____ Markets around the world have been shaken by the prospect of a trade war.But Chinas response to President Trumps sweeping protectionism has so far been muted, with just a few tit-for-tat tariffs. Our reporters say theres a good reason: The U.S. tariffs will have only a small impact on Chinas economy  and China could easily deepen the pain for the U.S. by blocking U.S. aircraft and soybeans from its markets.Here are some strong reactions from politicians, officials and analysts around the world. (And the U.S.-China contest for technological dominance is already red hot.).Beijing unexpectedly installed a party boss, Guo Shuqing, over its newly named central bank governor, Yi Gang._____ High-level officials from North and South Korea meet this week to discuss the agenda for the talks between their leaders, Kim Jong-un and Moon Jae-in.Around 30,000 North Koreans have successfully defected to the South in total, but far fewer are getting out under the reign of Mr. Kim.Our reporters reconstructed the harrowing story of five who never made it._____ Australia has evaded recession for 27 years, its economy buffered by supplying energy and raw materials like iron ore to the manufacturing economies of Asia, particularly Chinas.And a plan to open the Bight  a pristine stretch of ocean thats home to calving whales and teeming fisheries  to Norwegian drilling could help the country eclipse Qatar as the worlds largest exporter of natural gas.But opposition has been surprisingly strong. A woman who works in marine adventures in the Bight bemoaned the possible damage to our fishing industry, our tourism industry, our lifestyle._____ Duke Tran, who once fled Vietnam and was enslaved by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, has waged a long legal fight against Wells Fargo, saying the bank fired him for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices. Elon Musk joined a growing chorus of tech leaders calling for people to #DeleteFacebook, escalating his feud with Mark Zuckerberg. Internet companies like Facebook and Google were built on a model in which people gave up their information for free services. Now, that idea is under siege. The first nonstop flight between Australia and the U.K. reached London after a 17-hour flight from Perth. The head of Qantas called the new service a game-changer. We obtained documents that show Ubers self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona. Heres a snapshot of global markets. Australias claim to playing hard but fair has evaporated for years to come. So says a cricket analyst, pondering whether the national teams captain, Steve Smith, will survive the scandal over blatant ball-tampering in South Africa. [ABC] James Packer, 50, the Australian billionaire who last week resigned from his gambling empire over mental health issues, checked into a $5,000-per-night psychiatric hospital in the U.S. [News.com.au] Carles Puigdemont, the former president of Catalonia who is wanted in Spain on sedition charges, was detained after he crossed into Germany from Denmark. [The New York Times]  The Chinese historian Shen Zhihua has an impeccable Communist Party pedigree, enabling him to shine a light on some of Chinas darkest secrets  including those involving the Cold War and North Korea. [The New York Times] Beggars working the subways in Wuhan, a major city in central China, can make as much as five times the national average daily wage, according to the local news media. [South China Morning Post] Britains post-Brexit passports, hailed by Prime Minister Theresa May as an expression of independence, will be made in France. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. Change your bad habit by replacing it with something different. Explore how to age with meaning and happiness. Recipe of the day: Embrace a meatless Monday with stir-fried peppers, eggplant and tofu. Ata, a tiny, bizarrely formed mummy discovered in Chile, isnt an alien after all  but the real story is almost as strange. In memoriam:  Julie Yip-Williams, 42, a former refugee from Vietnam who blogged candidly about her colon cancer and the unfairness of life; Phan Van Khai, 84, a Soviet-trained former prime minister of Vietnam who helped overhaul the countrys economy and build ties with the U.S.  Finally, the joys and tribulations of coupling. Our audience editor in Sydney, fresh off her own honeymoon, offers Australias five most popular Modern Love columns  read into their popularity what you will.Last week, the Library of Congress in Washington announced its annual additions to the National Recording Registry, which honors significant pieces of American history and culture. (Here's the list.)Wed like to look at one: the original 1930 recording of Lamento Borincano, by Canario y Su Grupo.Known as an unofficial anthem of Puerto Rico, Lamento Borincano was composed by Rafael Hernndez, one of the islands most renowned and prolific songwriters (although he wrote it while living in New York City).The songs title refers to Borinquen, a derivation of Puerto Ricos indigenous name.The song reflects the plight of Puerto Rican farmers during the Great Depression. They faced not only the threat of hurricanes but also the economic changes brought after 1917, when Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship, leading to a wave of immigration north.The lyrics tell of a farmer who is loco de contento (crazy with happiness) at the prospect of selling his produce in town. But he arrives to find the town empty. With no one to buy anything, he returns to his farm demoralized. The song ends:Borinquen, the land of EdenThe one that when singing, the great GautierHe called the pearl of the seas.Now that you dieWith your regretsLet me sing to you too.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

TOKYO   Former President Barack Obama said Sunday that negotiations with North Korea on its nuclear weapons program are difficult, partly because the country\'s isolation minimizes possible leverage, such as trade and travel sanctions against Pyongyang."North Korea is an example of a country that is so far out of the international norms and so disconnected with the rest of the world," Obama told a packed hall in Tokyo.He stressed that the effort to get North Korea to give up nuclear weapons remains difficult, but said countries working together, including China, South Korea and Japan, to pressure the North is better than nations working alone.He noted that past U.S. efforts on Iran\'s nuclear weapons were more successful because there was more leverage, but that there\'s little commerce and travel with North Korea to being with."That makes them less subject to these kinds of negotiations," he said of North Korea.Obama was speaking at an event sponsored by a Japanese nonprofit group during an Asia-Pacific trip that included earlier stops in Singapore, New Zealand and Australia. Obama\'s work after leaving office has been focused on nurturing young leaders.Obama, welcomed by a standing ovation, said that the U.S.-Japan alliance remains strong, and that the U.S. is committed to defending Japan."North Korea is a real threat," he said."Our view has always been that we would prefer to resolve these issues peacefully," he said, adding that otherwise "the cost in terms of human life would be significant."He acknowledged that progress on a nuclear-free world will likely take a long time as long as Russia and the U.S. can\'t agree to reduce their stockpiles.Obama also reflected on his 2016 visit to Hiroshima, one of two Japanese cities where the U.S. dropped atomic bombs in the closing days of World War II. His visit was the first by an American president.Almost all American presidents tend to be relatively popular in Japan, which views the U.S. as its most important ally. But many Japanese particularly appreciate Obama\'s efforts on denuclearization and remember with fondness his trip to Hiroshima and his message of working toward a world without nuclear weapons."It was an extraordinarily powerful moment for me," Obama recalled.___Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
NEW YORK   It took six weeks but "Black Panther" has finally been unseated as the top film at the North American box office. The monsters vs. robots science-fiction sequel "Pacific Rim: Uprising" dethroned the superhero sensation with $28 million in ticket sales over the weekend, according to studio estimates Sunday.But the result for "Pacific Rim: Uprising," a Universal Pictures-Legendary Entertainment release that cost $150 million to make, was soft  at least domestically. Like the recently released "Tomb Raider," its biggest business was in China. "Pacific Rim: Uprising" debuted there with $65 million for Legendary, which the Chinese conglomerate Wanda Group acquired in 2016.And even though "Black Panther" slid to second place with $16.7 million in its sixth weekend, Ryan Coogler\'s film notched another box-office milestone. It\'s now the highest-grossing superhero film ever in North America, not accounting for inflation. The film\'s $631 million in domestic ticket sales has surpassed the $623 million of 2012\'s "The Avengers." \'\'Black Panther" also becomes the fifth highest grossing film of all-time, rising above "Star Wars: The Last Jedi."Yet the record-breaking hit of "Black Panther" has been followed by a string of lackluster performers, including "Tomb Raider," \'\'A Wrinkle in Time" and "Red Sparrow." \'\'Pacific Rim: Uprising" may have taken down the champ, but a blockbuster heir to "Black Panther" is yet to be found. Next weekend, Steven Spielberg will try with his big-budget virtual-reality spectacle "Ready Player One."Hollywood has essentially already squandered the early lead "Black Panther" gave it. Despite the firepower of "Black Panther," the year is running 2.6 percent behind 2017 at U.S and Canada theaters, according to comScore. This weekend was down 36.5 percent from last year when "Beauty and the Beast" was in its second week and the surprisingly successful "Power Rangers" debuted."One movie isn\'t enough to support a whole marketplace," said Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst for comScore. "We need a real shot in the arm here. \'Pacific Rim,\' that\'s a fine opening. But we need bigger numbers to be put up.""Pacific Rim: Uprising" could point to better results abroad, where it grossed $122.5 million over the weekend. The July 2013 original, directed by Guillermo del Toro, was likewise conceived as an East-West hybrid tailored after classic kaiju movies, the Japanese giant monster genre. It launched with $37.3 million domestically and $45 million in China.The $411 million worldwide haul for del Toro\'s film was enough to prompt a sequel, even if enthusiasm for a second installment was considerably higher in Asia. Steven S. DeKnight co-wrote and directed "Uprising," which critics largely slammed. It scored a 46 percent fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes."The domestic market was a very important part of it and we really came in above any reasonable expectations," said Jim Orr, domestic distribution chief for Universal. "This was always engineered to be a worldwide event film."The strategy was similar for Warner Bros.\' "Tomb Raider" reboot, starring Alicia Vikander. Domestically, it dropped steeply in its second week, sliding 56 percent with $10.4 million. Sales have been brisker overseas, where "Tomb Raider" has grossed $170 million thus far.MGM and Paramount Pictures\' animated family sequel "Sherlock Gnomes" disappointed with a $10.6 million debut. Forecasts had been higher for the sequel to "Gnomeo & Juliet," which grossed $194 million worldwide in 2011.The results were also modest for Steven Soderbergh\'s "Unsane," a psychological thriller starring Claire Foy ("The Crown") that the director shot with iPhones. The Bleecker Street-Fingerprint Releasing film opened with $3.9 million in 2,023 theaters. Though both were inexpensively made, neither of Soderbergh\'s first two films following his brief retirement from Hollywood has made much of a dent at the box office. Last year\'s "Logan Lucky," starring Channing Tatum, tapped out at $27.8 million domestically.But there were also bright spots. The Christian drama "I Can Only Imagine" held especially strongly in its second weekend. The Lionsgate-Roadside Attractions release grossed $13.8 million, bringing its two-week total to $38.5 million. "I Can Only Imagine" has emerged as the clear faith-based film of choice ahead of Easter, likely to the detriment of "Paul: Apostle of Christ," which took in $5 million this weekend for Sony\'s Affirm Films.And in limited release, Wes Anderson\'s stop-motion animated "Isle of Dogs" got off to a healthy start with $1.6 million in 27 theaters. Fox Searchlight, coming off its best-picture win at the Academy Awards for "The Shape of Water," carefully selected the opening-weekend theaters to cater to Anderson\'s die-hard fans."We just wanted to be out there to give his audience an opportunity to find the film," said Frank Rodriguez, distribution head for Searchlight.Anderson is coming off the biggest box-office hit of his career. "The Grand Budapest Hotel" grossed $175 million worldwide in 2014. "Isle of Dogs," about a Japanese island of misfit canines in a future dystopia, has been received with nearly equal fanfare. Critics gave it a 93 percent fresh Rotten Tomatoes score, audiences gave it an "A\'\' CinemaScore and Searchlight noted its opening-weekend audience was more than 60 percent under the age of 30. But it has also sparked questions of cultural appropriation ."I don\'t know how that\'s going to affect most of the audience," said Rodriguez. "We know that audiences want to see it. We can hope that people make their own decisions and hopefully look at the film as an homage to a great culture and great filmmakers. It\'s pretty much Wes."Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to comScore. Where available, the latest international numbers also are included. Final three-day domestic figures will be released Monday.1. "Pacific Rim: Uprising," $28 million ($122.5 million international).2. "Black Panther," $16.7 million ($12.9 million international).3. "I Can Only Imagine," $13.8 million.4. "Sherlock Gnomes," $10.6 million.5. "Tomb Raider," $10.4 million.6. "A Wrinkle in Time," $8 million.7. "Love, Simon," $7.8 million.8. "Paul, Apostle of Christ," $5 million.9. "Game Night," $4.2 million.10. "Midnight Sun," $4.1 million.___Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at international theaters (excluding the U.S. and Canada), according to comScore:1. "Pacific Rim: Uprising," $122.5 million.2. "Tomb Raider," $34.1 million.3. "Peter Rabbit," $28 million.4. "Black Panther," $12.9 million.5. "The Boss Baby," $7.8 million.6. "Red Sparrow," $6.2 million.7. "Operation Red Sea," $6.2 million.8. "The Shape of Water," $5.2 million.9. "Be With You," $5.1 million.10. "Coco," $4.5 million.___
AUSTIN, Texas   Bubba Watson made the final of the Dell Technologies Match Play look as though he were on vacation all along.Watson won his second World Golf Championships title Sunday with the biggest blowout since the championship matched switched to 18 holes in 2011, a 7-and-6 victory over Kevin Kisner.Watson wasn't as sharp as he was in the semifinals against Justin Thomas, whom he beat in 16 holes to deny Thomas going to No. 1 in the world ranking. He didn't have to be in the final. If not for missing a 4-foot birdie putt on the par-5 sixth, Watson would have won the first seven holes.Kisner had a lot to do with that. After escaping in 19 holes against Alex Noren in his semifinal match, Kisner didn't put up much of a fight. He made four straight bogeys and only twice on the front nine was putting for birdie.Watson had scheduled a family vacation out of the country on Sunday, which he had to postpone. Watson figured he hardly ever makes it this far in golf's most fickle format, so it was a good problem to have.Watson never trailed in the 28 holes he played Sunday, and he was never seriously threatened.The tougher match was against Thomas, the PGA champion who needed only to reach the championship match to replace Dustin Johnson at No. 1 in the world. Watson went out to a 3-up lead on the front nine, and when Thomas closed to 1 down at the turn with his first birdie putt, Watson won two of the next three holes to regain control. Thomas didn't make another birdie until the par-5 16th, and by then it was too late. Watson made his birdie from 3 feet for a 3-and-2 victory.Noren beat Thomas in the consolation match, 5 and 3.One year after Watson disappeared from among the elite in golf, he has won twice in his last four starts. He was No. 117 in the world when he arrived at Riviera, where he won for the third time in his career. With his 11th victory on the PGA Tour, he now is back up to No. 21. And the two-time Masters champion added his name to the growing list of contenders at Augusta National.___LPGA TOURCARLSBAD, Calif. (AP)  Eun-Hee Ji had a hole-in-one to dramatically finish off Cristie Kerr and the other challengers in the Kia Classic.Her lead cut from four strokes to one, Ji aced the 156-yard 14th with a 7-iron, the ball bouncing and rolling into the hole, to push her advantage to three shots.The 31-year-old South Korean player finished with a 5-under 67 at Aviara for a two-stroke victory over Kerr and Lizette Salas in the final event before the major ANA Inspiration next week at Mission Hills.Ji finished at 16-under 272. She earned $270,000 and two Kia cars, a Sorento for the hole-in-one and a Stinger for the victory. She has four LPGA Tour victories, including the 2009 U.S. Women's Open.Ji followed the ace with three-putt bogey on the par-4 15th and 18th. She had five birdies in a seven-hole stretch that ended on No. 10 to open a four-stroke lead. Ji hit all 18 greens in regulation and all but one fairway  the drivable par-4 16th.The 40-year-old Kerr closed with a 68. Salas finished with a 69.___PGA TOUR CHAMPIONSBILOXI, Miss. (AP)  Steve Stricker pulled away on the back nine at Fallen Oak to win the Rapiscan Systems Classic for his second straight PGA Tour Champions victory.The 51-year-old Stricker closed with a 4-under 68, birdieing all four par-5 holes on the Tom Fazio-designed layout with big and fast greens. He finished at 11-under 205 for a three-stroke victory over Billy Andrade.Stricker won the Cologuard Classic three weeks ago in Tucson, Arizona, for his first victory on the 50-and-over tour. He tied for 12th the following week in the PGA Tour's Valspar Championship, opposite the senior event in California that Vijay Singh won for his first senior title.Stricker played the front nine in 1 under, with birdies on the par-5 first and sixth and a bogey on the par-4 fourth. He birdied the par-4 10th, bogeyed the par-4 11th, and put away the tournament with consecutive birdies on the par-4 12th, par-5 13th and par-4 15th.The Wisconsin player has seven top-three finishes in nine career senior starts. In addition to the two victories, he tied for second last month in his first Champions start of the year. Stricker has 12 PGA Tour victories and captained the winning U.S. Presidents Cup team last year.Andrade closed with a 69.___PGA TOURPUNTA CANA, Dominican Republic (AP)  Brice Garnett completed a wire-to-wire victory in the Corales Puntacana Resort and Club Championship for his first PGA Tour title.Two strokes ahead after three late wind-blown bogeys Saturday, Garnett closed with a 2-under 70 in windy and rainy conditions for a four-stroke victory over Keith Mitchell.The 34-year-old Garnett, a two-time winner last year on the Web.com Tour, finished at 18-under 270. He opened with a 63 and added rounds of 69 and 70.Mitchell followed a third-round 75 with a 67.Former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo dropped out Friday, finishing last in the 132-man field in his PGA Tour debut. He shot 77-82 playing as an amateur on a sponsor exemption.___WEB.COM TOURBROUSSARD, La. (AP)  Julian Etulain of Argentina ran off three straight birdies to start the back nine and closed with a 4-under 67 to win the Chitimacha Louisiana Open for this first Web.com Tour victory.Etulain, a runner-up at this event two years ago, closed with six straight pars for a two-shot victory over Taylor Moore, who birdied his last three holes for a 63.Etulain finished at 19-under 265 and earned $99,000.Justin Lower closed with a 64 and finished alone in third at Le Triomphe Golf and Country Club.The victory moves Etulain to No. 5 on the Web.com Tour money list in his bid to finish among the top 25 at the end of the year and earn his card back on the PGA Tour. He finished 161st in the FedEx Cup last year in his rookie season.___OTHER TOURSLorenzo Gagli earned his first European Challenge Tour victory by closing with a 3-under 68 and beating Jens Fahrbring on the third hole of a sudden-death playoff in the Barclays Kenya Open. ... Yi Cao of China closed with a 9-under 63 and then beating William Harrold of England with a birdie on the first sudden-death playoff hole to win the Chongqing Championship on the PGA Tour Series-China. ... Phoebe Yao of Taiwan closed with a 6-under 66 and defeated Mamiko Higa in a playoff to win the AXA Ladies Golf Tournament on the Japan LPGA Tour. ... American Austin Smotherman won the Mexican Golf on the PGA Tour Latinoamerica. He closed with a 5-uner 65 for a four-stroke victory.
CAIRO   Here are some key events from more than seven years of turmoil and transition in Egypt leading up to presidential elections on March 26-28:Feb. 11, 2011: Autocrat Hosni Mubarak steps down after 18 days of nationwide protests against his nearly 30-year rule. The military takes over, dissolving parliament and suspending the constitution after the uprising leaves hundreds of protesters dead in clashes with security forces.Nov. 28, 2011-Feb. 15, 2012: The Muslim Brotherhood wins nearly half the seats in multi-stage elections for the first post-Mubarak parliament, while ultraconservative Salafi Islamists take another quarter. The remainder goes to liberal, independent and secular politicians.June 18, 2012: The Muslim Brotherhood\'s candidate Mohammed Morsi defeats Ahmed Shafiq, Mubarak\'s last prime minister, with 51.7 percent of the vote in a runoff, taking office on June 30 as Egypt\'s first freely elected president.Aug. 12, 2012: Morsi removes the defense minister and military chief, Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi, and replaces him with Lt. Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi.Nov. 22, 2012: Morsi unilaterally decrees greater powers for himself, giving his decisions immunity from judicial review and barring the courts from dissolving a panel charged with drafting a new constitution. The move sparks days of protests.Dec. 15-22, 2012: Egyptians approve a constitution drafted and hastily passed by Islamists amid protests and walkouts by other groups, with 63.8 percent voting in favor but a low turnout of 32.9 percent.March 12, 2013: Egypt rejects an offer of a $750 million rescue loan from the International Monetary Fund. In the coming months, fuel and electricity shortages stoke discontent, while a campaign called Tamarod, or "Rebel," gathers signatures calling for Morsi\'s removal and early presidential elections.June 30, 2013: On Morsi\'s anniversary in office, millions of Egyptians begin days of demonstrations demanding his resignation. The military gives him 48 hours to reach an agreement with his opponents, but he vows to remain in office.July 3, 2013: El-Sissi announces Morsi\'s removal, installing Constitutional Court Chief Justice Adly Mansour as interim president.Aug. 14, 2013: More than 600 people, mostly Morsi supporters, are killed when police clear two pro-Morsi sit-ins in Cairo. Islamists retaliate by torching government buildings, churches and police stations. Hundreds more die in subsequent violence.Aug. 19, 2013: Suspected Islamic militants kill 25 policemen in the Sinai Peninsula. Militant attacks escalate in Sinai over the following months, with shootings, bombings and suicide attacks against security officials and troops.Sept. 23, 2013: An Egyptian court orders the Brotherhood banned and its assets confiscated.Oct. 9, 2013: The U.S. suspends delivery of tanks, helicopters and fighter jets to Egypt in a show of disapproval over the anti-Brotherhood crackdown.Nov. 4, 2013: Morsi appears for the first time since his ouster at the opening of his trial on charges of inciting violence, the first of several court cases against him. Some charges against him carry the death penalty.Dec. 25, 2013: The government designates the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist organization.Jan. 14, 2014: Egyptians vote in favor of amendments to the constitution adopted under Morsi. The referendum sees 98.1 percent of voters approve the measure. Turnout is less than 39 percent.April 28, 2014: An Egyptian court sentences to death the Muslim Brotherhood\'s spiritual leader and 682 other people over violence and the killing of policemen. The verdict, which can be appealed, sparks an international outcry.May 26-28, 2014: Egyptians vote in a presidential election. El-Sissi wins with 96.9 percent of the vote. Leftist politician Hamdeen Sabahi receives 775,000 votes, fewer than the 1.4 million invalid ballots cast. Turnout was 47.45 percent.Nov. 10, 2014: A Sinai-based jihadi organization called Ansar Beit al-Maqdis pledges allegiance to the Islamic State group, giving the organization a foothold in Egypt.Nov. 30, 2014: A judge dismisses murder charges against Mubarak and acquits his security chief over the killing of protesters during the 2011 uprising.Apr. 21, 2015: Morsi sentenced to 20 years in prison on charges linked to the killing of protesters in 2012.May 9, 2015: Mubarak and his two sons sentenced to three years in prison on corruption charges during a retrial.May 16, 2015: Morsi and more than 100 others are sentenced to death over a mass prison break during the 2011 uprising.October 2015: Egypt holds parliamentary elections, leading to an assembly packed with el-Sissi supportersOct. 31, 2015: A bomb brings down a Russian airliner that had taken off from the resort city of Sharm al-Sheikh in the Sinai Peninsula. All 224 people on board were killed. The attack was later claimed by the Islamic State group.Apr. 15, 2016: Thousands demonstrate against Egypt\'s transfer of two Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabia, in the largest protests since el-Sissi was elected president.Nov, 11, 2016: The International Monetary Fund approves a three-year $12 billion bailout loan agreement with Egypt.Dec. 11, 2016: Suicide bomber strikes inside a Cairo chapel adjacent to St. Mark\'s Cathedral, seat of Egypt\'s ancient Coptic Orthodox Church. The Islamic State group claimed the attack, which killed at least 25 people.Mar. 13, 2017: Egyptian prosecutors order the release of Mubarak, ending years of legal proceedings.Apr. 3, 2017: El-Sissi visits U.S. President Donald Trump in the White House.Apr. 9, 2017: Twin suicide bombings rock churches in the coastal city of Alexandria and Tanta, killing at least 45 people. The attack was claimed by the Islamic State group. President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi declares a state of emergency nationwide.May 26, 2017: Masked militants open fire on a bus packed with Coptic Christians, including children, south of Cairo, killing at least 28 people and wounding 22.Oct. 20, 2017: Militants ambush a convoy of Egyptian security personnel, killing at least 16 policemen in the western desert, southwest of Cairo.Nov. 24, 2017: Militants kill 311 worshippers in a mosque attack in north Sinai, the deadliest such terrorist attack in Egypt\'s modern history. No group claimed responsibility.Jan. 7, 2018: Former Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq pulls out of the presidential race after he announced intention to run.Jan. 15, 2018: Former lawmaker Mohammed Anwar Sadat says he will not run for president, citing a political "climate" not conducive to campaigning.Jan. 23, 2018: Authorities arrest former army Chief of Staff Sami Annan on charges of inciting against the military and forgery, three days after he announced his intention to run for president.Jan. 24, 2018: Presidential hopeful Khaled Ali announces his withdrawal from the race, saying many of his supporters outside Cairo were arrested and faced terror charges.Jan. 27, 2018: Former anti-graft chief Hisham Genena is wounded in a brawl with unidentified men outside his suburban Cairo home. Genena was earlier named as a top aide to Annan.Jan. 29, 2018: Moussa Mustafa Moussa, a little-known politician who supports el-Sissi, declares his candidacy in the presidential elections.Feb. 13, 2018:   Genena arrested after he tells a television interviewer that Annan is in possession of documents incriminating the country\'s "leadership."Feb. 14, 2018: Former presidential candidate Abdel-Monaem Abul Fetouh arrested over his alleged links to Egypt\'s outlawed Muslim Brotherhood group.Mar. 26-28: Presidential election held in Egypt, with el-Sissi virtually guaranteed to win.
